[music]
>> At the end of the day, you're not going
to hit all-time highs day after day
after day. Investors should still expect
that there can be some volatility.
>> Conditions have become increasingly
fragile. We have nice earnings growth,
but it's being pushed by Mag 7.
>> We are going to see a broadening out of
the market. I think we're heading into
Goldilocks. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan [music]
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Anne Marie
Hoerdern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday looking for stability. A
tech-fueled equity market rally morphing
into a tech-fueled [music] sell-off as
Democrats are posting big wins in key
races across the country. The next test
[music] for White House policy is in the
Supreme Court. A hearing on tariffs
later on today. We're not going to learn
necessarily anything definitive [music]
today, but make no mistake. This hearing
and this potential Supreme Court ruling
has the potential to be transformative
[music]
both for Donald Trump's policies, but
also for the market. There is an
expectation that revenue coming from
tariffs can offset some of the
expenditures that will really come to
the fore early next [music] year that's
been supporting the bond market. If that
is overturned, a big question of how the
market will respond.
>> And a big question is if the Commerce
Department, the Treasury can refund all
of this money in terms of the tariff
revenue, but the administration will go
about collecting tariff revenue in other
ways. 232s, 301s. The big issue here is
for our day and age, this is the most
[music] critical Supreme Court moment in
terms of presidential economic power.
[music]
And this administration is trying to
say, "Actually, it's not economic power.
This is about national security."
>> ways, it plays into the debate at the
moment, affordability.
The mayoral candidate, Jumaane
now mayor-elect, has been so on message
over the last several months in this
[music] campaign. He takes everything
back to affordability, affordability,
and the cost of living. And that's the
blueprint for electoral politics in this
country [music] for the next 18 months
and beyond. A lot of people can say a
lot of things, but what he did was
promise something and a lot of other
Democrats hadn't been. Previously, they
had just been the anti-Trump. He came
back [music] to the same themes that
President Trump ran on, which is
affordability, costs of living, cost of
housing. So, here's the question. How
does that get manufactured and how does
President Trump message that today in a
here in a call that he's planning with
congressional Republicans
>> [music]
>> where he goes back to them? Does he say,
"Look, we need to double down on this."
or does he say, "You need to fight
harder. We're going to keep the
government shut. It's a long the
shutdown on record." And you know what?
Let's keep going because we don't want
to make concessions.
>> He's identified the right problems. Has
he got the solutions? Well, this is the
problem right now, and it's not just
affordability in New York. Affordability
is how you have Mikey Sherrill winning
in New Jersey. She talked about the fact
that electricity prices in New Jersey
are now in the double digits. And she
said, "I'm going to be the anti-Trump."
where her counterpart, Jack Ciattarelli,
was talking about how Trump at the
moment deserved an A grade. Same thing
in Virginia. These are two governors
where likely they were going to win.
There are more Democrats in these states
than there are Republicans. The margin
by [music] plus 10-point margins. And
how can we not talk about California
this morning? Prop 50 passing. This is a
springboard for Gavin Newsom for 2028.
>> to get into the market moves as well.
Equity futures pulling back again this
morning by 0.4%. Big sell-off yesterday
for big tech. High yield spreads wider
over the past five sessions as well,
Bramo.
>> [music]
>> Look, the moves are notable. The levels
are still okay for high yield, but it
gets your attention. Especially given
the fact that you're starting [music] to
see an increasing number of potential
downgrades from investment grade to uh
speculative grade. There is a sense that
there are cracks forming. How deep those
cracks are, whether that is a huge
[music] red flag, remains to be seen.
Nonetheless, what did we see
underperform the most yesterday?
Non-profitable tech. There is a real
question where people need to show me,
[music] not necessarily just say AI five
times. And right now, people are seeing
the ones that are out there that are not
able to make those bills or are not able
to grow their revenues as fast as
expected expected, [music]
punished roundly. Big hour coming up on
this program. We'll catch up with
Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth as the
stock sell-off [music] takes another leg
lower. Jessica Taylor with the Cook
Political Report as Democrats sweep key
races. And Nazak Nikhatar of Wylie with
the fate of global trade heading to the
Supreme Court. We begin this hour with
our top story. The capital of finance
electing a socialist.
You have dared to reach FOR SOMETHING
GREATER.
TONIGHT,
AGAINST ALL ODDS, WE HAVE GRASPED IT.
THE FUTURE IS in our hands.
Jumaane Mamdani winning more than 50% of
the vote after vowing to bring major
changes to the global capital of
finance. Bloomberg's Miles Miller joins
us now outside City Hall. Miles Miller,
good morning to you, sir. A big win for
Mamdani.
Yeah, that's right. It wasn't just a
win. It was very much a statement and
what he calls a mandate. This is a
person who campaigned on a message of
affordability, right? Free buses,
freezing the rent, and of course,
universal child care. How those things
get pushed through or work in City Hall
will be one thing, but it is very clear
that there was a big contingent of New
Yorkers who decided that he was the
right person for the job. You know,
getting almost a million votes and
reaching 50% of the vote is no easy task
here. It is the highest voter turnout in
more than
three decades, four decades here in this
city.
What we know is that he pulled this off
with a truly grassroots coalition. We
are hearing people who said that he went
all the way out to the Rockaways. He was
on Staten Island really trying to get
his message across.
And what we know is that he's going to
have to work with the business
community, right? As you said, the the
really capital of capitalism here,
big banks based here, a burgeoning AI
and tech sector here. And so, he knows
that his transition team really has to
focus on what makes New York City tick.
And we heard from Wall Street leaders
last night about how they plan to work
with him on these issues. But of course,
this was a grueling campaign. Andrew
Cuomo was looking to make a splash after
losing in the primary, going after him
on the message of public safety, going
after him and saying that he's only 34
and had no experience. But New Yorkers
seemed not to care about that. The
affordability message winning through.
And something we spoke about yesterday,
that was a message that Donald Trump won
on
just last year. And what is very
interesting, Mamdani has said is that
he's willing to work with Trump on
affordability, but he's also willing to
be a fighter against Trump if he does
what he said he would do just two days
ago, which is pull money from New York
City because he says that Mamdani is a
socialist. Miles, appreciate the update.
Miles Miller there tracking the story
for us on Bloomberg TV and on Bloomberg
Radio throughout this morning. What's
the first move for Mamdani in the next
few weeks, the next several months?
What's the first move for the President
of the United States?
>> Well, for Mamdani, it has to be to keep
Jessica Tisch. He has said he's going
plans on keeping her as the New York
Police Department Commissioner. Does she
accept? How long does she stay on? That
will assuage the concerns of the
business community cuz public safety for
them is number one to make sure they
continue to retain and attract the best
talent.
>> We've got a market story to stay on top
of as well. Equity futures down by about
a third of 1% on the S&P 500. Here's the
view on Wall Street. Cameron Dawson of
New Edge Wealth writing, "We see
potential for the melt-up to barrel on
into year-end, but see cracks under the
surface that could make the market more
fragile to start 2026." Cameron joins us
now for more. Good morning, Cameron.
Good morning.
>> Are you long real estate in Florida?
That's a joke. Don't [laughter] answer.
Let's get to the cracks under the
surface. What are the cracks under the
surface?
>> The first one is no, and the second one
is
>> [laughter]
>> we've certainly seen a deterioration in
breadth over the course of the last
month or so. You've seen this market get
ever more narrow. You have 60% of the
names within the S&P 500 not trading
above their 50-day moving average, and
that was brewing even as we were hitting
all-time highs last week. We also saw a
big surge in very speculative parts of
the market over the course of the last
two months that was simply
unsustainable. Even the socks was up 30%
over the course of September and
October. So, we should not be surprised
that we are seeing volatility. That is
the nature of equity markets. We're only
2% off of all-time highs. You're still
very much in an uptrend, but you have to
appreciate the fact that we've had this
melt-up, and it just increases the
probability that you have some chop and
churn as you adjust these massive moves.
>> Is there any broader lesson though from
what we saw yesterday? And you might
just say no, but there is a sense that
you did see the rest of the universe
actually outperform. And you saw more
gainers than you did losers even with
the overall index falling. A reversal of
that very narrow breadth that we had
been seeing. Is this the beginning of
something broader? Uh finally, we can
celebrate diversification, right?
Because over the last couple of months,
we've been in a world where you could
only own just a small handful of names
in order to be able to outperform. But
days like yesterday are a great reminder
of why diversification works and why
valuation discipline works. You
Valuations are a tough one because
they're not a great timing tool.
However, they do matter when you get a
catalyst, and they amplify moves to the
downside. So, when you look at things
like non-profitable tech having rallied
40 or 37% this year, non-revenue Nasdaq
companies up 67% this year. These are
just areas that you've seen big huge
parabolic moves higher, and what you
typically see is after a straight line
up, you often do see in those areas a
straight line down. The only issue is it
doesn't seem like this is fundamentally
driven. We saw earnings from Palantir
that blew out expectations. AMD came
out. They beat. I saw the write-ups
trying to find a reason for why the
shares sold off. It was a, you know,
tepid at best. I mean, they they did a
good job. Congratulations on trying to
make an effort to make a narrative here,
but they did a great quarter. So, I
don't understand exactly what the
fundamental concern is that could drive
these shares lower. Heavy is the head
that wears the high bar.
At the end of the day, you can have
beats and raises, but if the buy side
numbers are higher, positioning is
already very crowded, who's the
incremental buyer? And so, that's why we
have to be pay very close attention when
stock or asset prices in general don't
move in the direction that the news
would suggest. That usually is a sign
that positioning is very crowded and
people have already priced in most of
the good news. You look at something
like the socks. It's trading at 28 times
forward earnings. Remember,
semiconductors are very, very cyclical
companies. If you start putting peak on
peak earnings, so peak valuations on
peak earnings, that usually is a recipe
for underperformance because you aren't
you are putting such a high valuation on
earnings that are unlikely to be
extrapolated further into the future.
We've seen some pushback. Metso last
week. We've seen it as well this week
with Palantir again with AMD. So, one of
those markets, Bremo, you talked about
AMD. It's not about beating the average
estimate. It's about beating the top
estimate. And I think that speaks to the
AMD story this morning. The idea that
they beat revenues by 9.6%. People are
expecting 9.9%, the very highest, and
even the average is 9.2%. Speaks exactly
to what you're talking about. I just
wonder if there is this bigger story
here about a rotation away from big tech
to the rest of the universe. How
predicated it is on some sort of rate
cut or whether this really is a
reacceleration in the economy that we
can't really track so we don't get data.
Yeah, Airlines had a dreadful day
yesterday as well. It's not just big
tech. I'm seeing pockets of weakness
elsewhere. The guidance I'm getting from
the restaurant business as well,
Chipotle and others too, are pointing to
an economy that's maybe not so great.
What do you see?
Cardboard boxes. Cardboard boxes are
having one of the worst volume since
2015 for this time of year. And that is
raising concerns about the strength
going into holiday season. And it
there's a fair point that you have seen
this market diverge from the real
economy. If you look at over the course
of the long term, usually freight
expenditures are very closely tracked by
the S&P 500, but they've diverged since
the pandemic, which speaks to the
intangible nature of this market.
However, at the end of the day, we still
do all breathe the same economic air.
All of the Mag 7 are still cyclical
businesses that rely on the US economy
remaining strong, whether we're thinking
about advertising or high-end consumer
goods. So, if the US economy really is
weakening, we should not expect that all
of these companies will remain immune.
This is a point of tension that's
persisted all year. We'll get the ADP
jobs report later. It's all we've got.
We don't have the payrolls report
anymore. I don't know when we're going
to get that. But the point of tension is
we've opened up a gap between equity
market performance and employment this
year. And the question we keep going
back to is how much longer can that
persist?
>> And is it a feature not a bug? Is it the
idea that the acceleration of AI comes
without the sort of commensurate
employment or is this something that
eventually will lead to that employment
picture? I think that the fast casual
retailers to me, the cash fast casual
restaurants, those are a key How much is
that a universe of its own? How much of
this really is an indication of
consumers pushing back?
>> Carvana, another one kind of gets fully
its sales growth targets in the last 24
hours. I thought you were permanently
long Florida real estate. Being from
Florida.
>> [laughter]
>> My family's still there, but yeah. All
right. You know, it doesn't have to be
about politics. Cameron, it's good to
see you. Thank you. Cameron Dawson of
NewEdge Wealth. Of course it is about
politics. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Yohai for more. Hi, Yohai. Hi, John.
Voters in California passed Proposition
50 to redraw the state's congressional
map before the midterms. With 71% of the
votes counted, nearly 64% of voters
approved the the ballot measure that
could flip up to five Republican-held
House seats [music] to Democrats next
year.
Meanwhile, the government shutdown has
reached a new milestone. It is now the
longest in US history at day 36. Senate
Majority Leader John Thune says he hopes
this will be the week they can negotiate
an end to the impasse, but even if they
do, they'll face another funding fight.
The stopgap spending bill the House
passed in September expires in a little
more than [music] 2 weeks.
And Amazon has sent a cease and desist
letter to Perplexity demanding that the
search startup stop allowing [music] its
AI browser agents comment to make
purchases online for users. Amazon
accuses Perplexity of
>> [music]
>> committing computer fraud by failing to
disclose when its AI agent is shopping
on a user's behalf. Perplexity says
Amazon is bullying a smaller competitor.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
[music] Yohai, thank you. Thank you very
much. More from Yohai later this hour.
Up next on the program, a Democratic
sweep.
New York,
TONIGHT YOU HAVE DELIVERED
a mandate for change. In 2025,
Virginia chose pragmatism
over partisanship.
>> So, New Jersey, the future is now. That
conversation up next with Jessica Taylor
of the Cook Political Report from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Two days of gains on the S&P 500 running
into a day of losses. The losses carry
on this morning. We're down a third of
1% on the S&P. On the Nasdaq 100, down
by 0.5.
[music] Under Savannah's this morning,
looking at the politics, a Democratic
sweep.
New York,
tonight you have delivered
A MANDATE FOR CHANGE.
A MANDATE FOR A NEW KIND OF POLITICS.
A MANDATE FOR A CITY WE CAN AFFORD. In
2025,
Virginia chose pragmatism
over partisanship.
>> So, New Jersey, the future is now. Roll
up your sleeves. Let your passion flow.
So, here's the latest this morning.
Democrats sweeping three major local
elections from New York City to New
Jersey and Virginia by wider than
expected margin. Joining us now is
Bloomberg's Taylor Kendo. Good morning,
Taylor.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, the
Democratic wins last night will no doubt
bolster a party that's been grappling
with a way to counter Republicans' grip
here in Washington. And while New York
elected a progressive Mondani, we did
see two moderate Democrats clinch the
gubernatorial elections in Virginia and
New Jersey. But the common theme among
all of these elections was a focus on
pocketbook issues and the economy.
Really the same issues that helped
propel President Trump to the White
House. But with consumer sentiment now
at a 5-month low, early exit polls from
the Associated Press showed that six in
10 voters in Virginia and New Jersey say
that they are either angry or
dissatisfied with the current state of
the country. Importantly, President
Trump lost both of these states in 2024,
but he had made significant inroads
compared to the numbers he pulled in
2020. That's leading some strategists to
say that this perhaps could show the
future limitations of having President
Trump not on the ballot despite him
weighing in on all of these races. One
thing's for sure, last night's results
will no doubt inform how both parties
are going to comb through the results to
inform their midterm election
not just on issue, but also on where
they're going to pour their resources
into. Because, John, we'd be remiss if
we didn't mention that Democratic
Governor Gavin Newsom won his effort
when it comes to the redistricting
fight, which could give Democrats five
new seats in that state, but it's all in
a bid to counter Republicans' own
efforts that are happening across the
country. Taylor Kendo with the latest.
Taylor, thank you. We'll catch up with
Taylor later on this morning to build on
this story. Jessica Taylor of the Cook
Political Report writes in the
following. The losses for Republicans
across the board and surging Democratic
enthusiasm were the most concrete signs
yet that a backlash to Trump akin to
2018 is brewing. Jessica joins us now
for more. Jessica, welcome back to the
program. Let's just take stock of what
we saw in the last 24 hours. How does
that stack up with what we saw 12 months
ago?
I mean, it's just a
complete reversal and a complete rebuke
of Trump in his first term. I mean, we
expected Democrats to have a good night.
They were favored in I mean, certainly I
kind of put the New York City results
aside because New York City's one of the
bluest states in the
bluest cities in the country. So, I
think that doesn't tell us
as much. To me, it's Virginia and New
Jersey. These are states that Trump made
gains in. Um he won both by about six
points, and that was a massive
improvement from his 2020 results. But
the fact that, you know, that we we
expected, you know, a double-digit
victory in both of these contests. Um
Abigail Spanberger right now is winning
by 15 points. You know, polls showed
somewhere around like eight to 12. New
Jersey, especially, this was a race that
was in single digits in polling, or even
low single digits at some point. And
Mikie Sherrill is winning by 13 points.
You know, one of the biggest trends that
we saw last this time last year was that
Trump made gains in heavily Hispanic
areas. When I'm looking at, you know,
one of the most Hispanic precincts for
in for instance, in Virginia, um
Spanberger saw 22-point swing in her
direction. So, this new coalition that
Trump felt like he had built on, you
know, on more diverse voters, that was
completely obliterated last night.
>> Jessica, I'm glad you brought that up
because Passaic County, I'm looking at a
plus-15 margin for Mikie Sherrill. And
this is a county that Trump won last
year. What do Republicans need to do
ahead of the midterms seeing these kind
of results and these type of margins?
Well, I think it's two issues. Overall,
I mean, the Republicans numbers in both
of these were were pretty much in line
with Trump's approval ratings, which
were were in the low 40s. Um
and typically in midterm elections, we
see that Republican candidates get about
that. So, if that presages what we see
in 2026, this could be a blowout. And
then, of course, we look at the House of
Representatives and some of this
mid-decade redistricting that's been
going on in Texas for for instance. They
were banking on better Hispanic turnout
in places like South Texas. So, some of
those districts that they redrew to be
favorable to them, that might not be the
case. They might have just doomed
themselves in some of those. It's a
little too early to tell, but you know,
I think it tells us two things. We saw
in exit polling that people are not
happy with the way that Trump is going
about enforcement immigration with ICE.
And then, it's the economy. It just goes
down down to that. The people are very
unhappy with the direction of the
country. And when you do not have Trump
on the ballot, if you want to send a
message that you are upset at his
policies and the direction he's taking
the country, the only way you have to
voice that is to vote for the opposing
party. It feels like the individuals
that won did focus on affordability,
something Trump did a year ago. And they
didn't focus on making this about Donald
Trump. So, is that the blueprint?
Actually speak to voters where they are
in terms of their economic concerns.
I think that's you're you're absolutely
right. We saw in Virginia for instance,
where I am, um Abigail Spanberger, she
did not run an anti-Trump campaign. She
talked about jobs in the economy. And
listen, this race was particularly
roiled by It has one of the highest
concentration of federal workers. So, it
wasn't just, you know, the government
shutdown
um overly affected people here, but just
the continued assault on federal workers
and trying to cut the
doughs and trying to cut workers and
different things. You know, in New
Jersey,
um Mikie Sherrill focused on high power
high utility bills and different things.
So, again, but but but in both races,
the Republican candidates did not do
anything to distance themselves from
Trump. Trump wouldn't allow that really.
He demands such fealty. So, that's the
really the quandary he's putting some of
these Republican candidates in come
2026. Jessica, did these elections that
we saw yesterday throughout the
Northeast and California make it that
we'll get a sooner result resolution to
the government shutdown? Or do you think
that it's just going to harden the
lines?
It does seem like we're seeing movement.
You know, I think that there is talk now
of a obviously the the CR that's on the
table would be just through the 21st of
this month. So, I think they're looking
at something through either the end of
the year or January.
We're already seeing movement with with
some more moderate Democrats. I think
that Democrats now can say, "Look, not
just that we we want to move on
affordability and different things." But
when they're talking about the Obamacare
subsidies and things, it just comes down
to cost. And I think all of that folds
into that. So, I do think we will see
some movement, but the next few days
here are and how both parties react to
the results and maybe don't overread
into them or overreact could be really
critical. Jessica Taylor of the Cook
Political Report. Jessica, thanks for
your time to break down these numbers.
Big changes in the last 24 hours
compared to what we saw 12 months ago.
Lisa, we talked a lot about what this
could mean for the midterms. I think we
need to talk more about what it could
mean for the Democratic Party and the
leadership into the next general
election and which ideas are winning out
at the moment in that party. You know,
right now you have both spectrums.
That's the interesting thing. You had uh
the New Jersey and the Virginia races
and the governors that won there who
were Democrats were very much centrist.
And then you have Zohran Mamdani who is
a socialist Democrat. How does this
shake out in terms of what happens in
the midterms remains to be seen.
Nonetheless, that's the reason why
Proposition 50 might be most interesting
cuz it definitely gives California an
upper hand in that race.
>> party at large, Gavin Newsom is now
going to be seen as someone who
delivered for the entire party
nationally. He's going to use Prop 50 to
launch pad himself for 2028. The
question I have is how are you a
governor of a state with the highest
unemployment rate and the highest gas
prices? How do you take that story
nationally? Not sure it works.
>> With great difficulty. And if you don't
have great hair, it would have been even
harder, right? You know, that's the
thing with Gavin Newsom, such a
good-looking man.
>> I think even Trump agrees. I know.
Seriously, coming up on the program,
former Commerce Department official
Issac Leacock [music] Tao with the fate
of US tariff policy headed to the
Supreme Court from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
[music]
>> This price action has been so one-way, a
1% move feels like a bear market to many
of you, I know. Got to go all the way
back to April for the last time we had a
3% drawdown on a closing basis according
to Jonathan Krinsky of BTIG. That's a
long, long time. Equity futures this
morning down by a third of 1% on the S&P
and on the Nasdaq we're down by 0.5. In
the bond market, twos, 10s, and 30s
demonstrating some risk mitigation
characteristics in the last 24 hours.
Bond yields are lower, down again this
morning by almost a basis point on twos,
Lisa, at 3.5676. [music]
>> Yeah, and ISM services might give
further fuel to this. ISM manufacturing
came in below expected. I also think
[music] that this Cava headline coming
out following in the footsteps of what
we saw from Chipotle really hammers home
the point that there is a host of the
economy that's [music] lagging behind
and you're seeing it in some of the
earnings. How much does that feed into
the idea that the Fed can cut interest
rates more [music] and it can fuel a
more aggressive bet in treasuries?
>> Very defensive price action in the last
24 hours. You see that in credit as
well. High yield spreads have been wider
over the previous five sessions. Let's
finish on FX and turn to foreign
exchange. Switch at the border gets to
euro dollar. Euro dollar coming into
today negative for five consecutive
sessions. Euro dollar this morning
1.1487.
Dollar strength kicking back in, Lisa.
You noted this yesterday. It's been a
theme over the last week.
>> Yeah, what a sell America, huh? Cuz
right now we're seeing a reversal of
that and you wonder whether the flight
to safety includes [music] once again
the flight to treasuries. Watch this
space especially as the likes of Bitcoin
sell off. The idea that the momentum
trade is fading and it may be into goes
the sell goes the sell America trade
that actually is reverting back [music]
as a place of a haven.
>> DXY around the highest since May of this
year, just about unchanged on the
session so far. As we count you down to
the open about about three hours away to
get the equity story with your morning
movers, here's Yahara with more. Hey,
Yahara. Hi, John. AMD beat on pretty
much every metric, sales, profit, you
name it. Yet shares are still down more
than 5% now in the premarket for failing
to live up to [music] high expectations
after shares more than doubled this
year. And it was the company's fourth
quarter revenue forecast that was the
issue. Well, it did beat there, it
failed to hit the highest mark set by
analysts. And moving on to Pinterest,
those shares are also falling, plunging
nearly 18% now in the premarket after
offering a disappointing [music] holiday
outlook. The company which makes almost
all of its money from advertising and is
leaning heavily into AI just isn't
seeing those ad dollars coming in as
quickly as investors had hoped. And
another warning sign from the fast
casual space, we are seeing Cava shares
down 8 and 1/2% after the company cut
its full year sales outlook saying that
foot [music] traffic pretty much stalled
last quarter and it's the latest company
warning of a pullback [music]
specifically among younger consumers. We
heard that from Chipotle, Wingstop, and
Shake Shack. So, this is looking more
like a trend rather than a one-off
warning, John. McDonald's up next.
That's the stock to watch that earnings
report later on this morning. Yahara,
thank you more from Yahara later this
hour. On a bright note this morning,
Democrats sweeping all three major
elections giving the party a much-needed
boost. New York City electing Zohran
Mamdani for mayor with Abigail
Spanberger and Mikie Sherrill winning
their gubernatorial races in Virginia
and New Jersey. Elsewhere, the US
government shutdown entering its 36th
day officially making it the longest in
American history. Economists warning the
stalemate could cut fourth quarter
growth by as much as 2% if it drags on
for another month. And finally, the US
Supreme Court hearing arguments today
challenging the legality of some of
President Donald Trump's tariffs. If
overturned, the government may face
refunding billions of dollars in a blow
to the nation's finances. Lisa, this in
many ways is about the bond market more
than anything else. If you don't get the
400 billion dollars of annual revenues
that we seem to be on track for from
from the tariffs, what does that mean
for the deficit picture for some of the
bond vigilantes that have gone into
hiding and are covering their heads?
There is this feeling that they might
reassert themselves and push back
against some of the recent price action.
Again, it's not going to be until the
end of this year that we get a ruling,
maybe the beginning of next year. And by
then, we might have a sense of what the
cocktail of additional tariff measures
might be to replace this income.
>> This is going to be tough for the
Supreme Court. They're going to look at
the US Court of International Trade. And
they said the US Constitution makes it
clear that this authority of commerce is
up to Congress. And they go on to say,
"It's not that we are not passing
judgment on the wisdom or likely
effectiveness of the president's policy,
but just that it's not constitutional."
Which is why the administration is
trying to make out that these are three
big emergencies when it comes to
fentanyl, the trade deficit, and having
that ability to say have a threat
against China when it comes to rare
earths that they need this authority to
be within the executive branch.
>> president's list of priorities this
week, including what's happened in
Virginia, New Jersey, and here in New
York City, was this number one? This
hearing at the Supreme Court.
>> He's called it life or death for the US
economy. And he said in that CBS 60
Minutes interview that the economy will
go to hell, his words, if IEEPA does not
withstand the Supreme Court. So, for
him, this is paramount. But you talk to
people in the administration, there are
other ways they can act tariff policy.
It's just not going to be as clean. It's
not going to be as a blunt of an
instrument. But they could still use
other orders like they are using right
now. They're using 232s. They're 301s.
There are other instruments they can
use, but it's not as easy.
>> Let's stay on this story. Regardless of
the Supreme Court ruling, Nazak
Nikakhtar, Commerce Department official,
is expecting
Trump's tariffs to live on, writing the
administration has several other tools
that they can implement to execute their
trade agenda. Nazak joins us now for
more. Welcome to the program. Let's just
talk about that. What is at actually at
stake today if the president could just
make other moves elsewhere to achieve
the same means?
Well, I think the group and it's good to
be with you. The big question is this
International um Emergency Economic
Powers Act of 1997 that 1977 that allows
the president to um regulate imports
during peacetime and and take measures
to address unusual and extraordinary
threats. The core question is really the
limitations of the president's power.
Does the president have vast sweeping
authority to impose tariffs in a way,
regulate sort of financial aspects of
the United States, or is it Congress
that holds the cards there and can only
delegate financial revenue-raising
authority to the president when it
expressly set sets says so? Those are
the core main questions. The Supreme
Court has never heard an IEEPA case
before. It's never interpreted the
language. So, the main question is does
this does this uh law give the president
sweeping authority to regulate imports
through taxes um it which which through
tariffs which are deemed to be taxes by
by the judges, or um is the president's
authority much more restrained? Going
into this, what is your base case for
how the Supreme Court will rule?
You know, it it it's really difficult to
say. This is a very, very difficult
question. You've got the major questions
doctrine, doctrine, which is going to be
at heart um of this issue, uh which the
Supreme Court has to decide. Look,
constitutional interpretation. If
Congress intended to give the president
vast political authority over political
and economic questions, does it need to
expressly state so? Think about the
impact of all the other statutes. How
much can the executive branch read into
this, right? And right now we have three
pillars of the um US government that are
at odds with one another. The president
has moved in a very unusual way to read
the statute very broadly. Congress in
large part has remained silent, even
though with respect to the tariffs on
Brazil, Congress has spoken up and has
used its lawmaking powers to restrain
the president's authority there. And now
you've got the judicial branch who has
to make sense of it all. And again,
implications are going to be significant
with this much revenue at stake. The
administration has talked about why
they're using IEEPA, emergency responses
to the trade deficit, to what's going on
in terms of China trying to enact export
controls on rare earths, and then on
fentanyl. Do you think one out of any of
those others have more of a case in
terms of an emergency authority needed
to combat those issues?
Yeah, that's a great question. And this
really goes back to the sort of the
history I of IEEPA. Um IEEPA has
traditionally been used over the decades
as really sanctions authority, right? Um
maximum economic pressure campaign on
countries to do and not do things. So,
it really depends on how the US
government argues it. The tariffs on
India, these IEEPA tariffs on India is a
maximum pressure campaign because
they're buying Russian uh Russian
energy. We have sanctions on Russia. The
IEEPA tariffs used used against India
feel like sanctions. They might for the
fentanyl crisis also feel like a maximum
pressure sanctions type um uh legal
authority. But, if the president just
doesn't like a trade deficit uh with
with a country, can he use IEEPA? I
think that the courts may very likely
say there's different legal authority
for that. If the if Congress gave the
president distinct legal authority to
address a specific fact pattern, then
can he use other legal authorities that
are a little but vague to address that
same fact pattern. Nazak, from a markets
perspective, it's important to ask how
much has actually changed since
pre-liberation day. You're looking at an
overall tariff rate that's gone from 12
and a half or from 2 and a half percent
to about 12 and a half percent versus
the headline figure that's somewhere
closer to 20% and a lot of some of the
measures with respect to China in
particular have been walked back. How
much have the walls truly been put up in
a way that do indicate some sort of
separation of the world's two biggest
economies?
This is this is the the economic impact
at least first to the United States,
right? Um I I think partially what the
president is thinking he's doing is
really balancing fair trade, but then
getting trade deals to bring countries
closer into the United States orbit,
right? And and maybe this relationship
with China is still up in the air. But,
I really want to underscore the massive
economic impact. We have 90 about $90
collected in the IEEPA tariffs alone.
Think about the economic impact of
either way that the court rules. If the
court invalidates IEEPA, you've got
importers, US importers in large part
who are paying the tariffs, but they
pass through those tariffs in in in some
significant respects to their customers.
So, if the court invalidates IEEPA,
you've got the importers getting this
massive sudden windfall of money, but
then their customers aren't getting
anything. That will present one major
shock to the economy. And if the courts
uphold IEEPA, then um
then these importers are not going to
get the money that they were expecting.
Yet another major shock to the economy.
And going back, if the court does
invalidate IEEPA, now you've got
importers in line to not only recover
the tariffs that they paid plus interest
because that's how this works. If you
actually paid tariffs that the courts
have invalidated, you're not only
entitled to get the tariff revenue back,
you have to get the tariff revenue back
plus interest. Think about the sudden
shock to the economy depending on e-
either way based on how the Supreme
Court rules. What are you advising
clients? Are they lining up and figuring
out how exactly to request their money
back from the government?
Yes and no. I I there's a lot of
importers who are thinking about you
watching this very closely and figuring
out how they're going to line up and and
and what the process is because you
can't have a stampede all at once for
all these importers, right? 90 billion
dollars trying to get the money back at
the same time. So, the courts are going
to look for a process. We're looking
very much into what kind of process is
going to be set up for importers to get
the revenue. But, also we represent a
lot of the the businesses in the United
States who've already paid those tariffs
and even if the importers of record get
that reven- revenue back, a lot of our
clients, a lot of the businesses aren't
going to get that revenue back because
those go to the importers. And then
that's a private transaction issue,
whether the the um
the businesses are going to demand from
their importers to get some of that
back. Un- very unlikely because then
that becomes an accounting issue. But,
there's um there's going to be a
stampede and hopefully the government
figures out an orderly process. Only if
the Supreme Court invalidates a tariff.
But, look, for the Supreme Court, is
this a textual issue? Is this a
constitutional issue? Is it a foreign
policy issue? All of this is going to
really um weigh how the Supreme Court
looks at this. This could get messy,
that's for sure. Nazak, I appreciate
your time as always. Nazak Nikakhtar,
that the former Commerce Department
official. Could get very messy. Policy,
we wanted to move on from this. This
just introduces more volatility
potentially. Yeah, and volatility we
can't even really begin to imagine
because we don't understand the process.
We don't imagine exactly what the other
measures are going to be that are going
to be put on retroactively, how many
companies are going to line up. I mean,
the race for a money and interest, who's
going to oversee that? Is it going to
also be Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent
who's doing everything else? Yeah, good
luck to him. Equity futures this morning
negative by 2/10 of 1% struggling to
bounce back from yesterday's losses.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg Brief with
Mayu Hayakawa. Hayakawa. Hi, John.
[music]
A UPS freight jet crashed and exploded
shortly after takeoff from Louisville,
Kentucky. Video shows the Honolulu-bound
jet struggling to get airborne with one
of its engines on fire before exploding
in a fireball beyond the end of the
runway. Three crew members were killed
as well as four people on the ground. 11
others were injured.
Meanwhile, Novo Nordisk is cutting its
outlook for a fourth time this year on
lagging sales of its blockbuster weight
loss drugs Wegovy and Ozempic. Once the
leader in the space, Novo is struggling
to compete with Eli Lilly in the growing
market for obesity medicines. Shares of
Novo Nordisk are down nearly 60%
year-to-date. [music]
And the global sell-off in semiconductor
stocks wiped out roughly $500 billion in
combined market cap on Tuesday. The
pullback reflects the growing investor
unease over the sector's earnings
potential plus elevated stock
valuations. It comes after chipmakers
have added trillions of dollars in
market value since a low in April.
That's your Bloomberg Brief, John.
Hayakawa, [music] thanks you. Appreciate
the update. Up next on the program, Bank
of America in the hot seat.
I think Bank of America under Brian
Moynihan have been great risk managers,
but this decade they've not been great
risk takers. I expect them to have more
of an opportunistic risk mindset going
forward. Up next, we'll catch up with
Erica Najar of UPS from New York City
this morning. Good morning. You're
watching Bloomberg TV. [music]
>> [music]
[music]
>> Later on today, the first investor day
for Bank of America in more than a
decade. Ahead of that, we're getting
some headlights for you, some new
targets. [music] Bank of America seeing
return on tangible common equity in a
range of 16 to 18% in 3 to 5 years. So
we're going to get about 15% at the
moment. So that's a lift. This is what
the market's looking for. From speaking
to sources familiar with the matter,
Lisa, we're not moving on
>> [music]
>> from Brian Moynihan's responsible
growth. I think we're just putting a ton
of emphasis this morning and Lisa on
today on the growth part of that. And I
would call it growth
>> [music]
>> with intense efficiency. Yeah, and with
some new leadership. So not only did we
see Jim Dimon come over as co-president,
but you did see today Bank of America
announcing some new picks [music] to
lead the trading unit. So new leadership
that might be more risk forward, I guess
is the way to say it, as they try to
seek out opportunities, not just avoid
the cockroaches. [music]
>> This stock has had a massive move, a
move of more than 50% off the lows of
April. That's quite a stunning rally
into this. And a change of emphasis for
a lot [music] of people in this market
as well. Looking forward to the
communication of the bank a little bit
later, but from speaking to Brian
Moynihan, Lisa, you and I for the last
year or so, repeatedly talking about the
potential
>> [music]
>> to get a lot more out of less. To get a
lot more revenue out of every single
dollar. I think this is really, really
important. For each additional dollar of
revenue, you're going to have to spend
less and less because of the staff
story. That's the key part of this. The
idea that the overall business [music]
can expand, the footprint can remain the
same in large part because of, guess
what, AI and some of the algorithmic
learning, the machine learning programs
that they've put in place. They've been
investing heavily in it. How can they do
[music] that in a way where they're also
taking risk, exciting their balance
sheet in a way to compete with some of
their main competitors that are doing
just that.
>> As something the CFO, Alistair
Borthwick, said earlier this year,
we feel like we've got an opportunity to
close a relative value gap, and that's
what today is all about. And Savannah's
this morning, Bank of America [music] in
the hot seat.
I think Bank of America under Brian
Moynihan have been great risk managers,
but this decade they've not been great
risk takers. How do they put some meat
on the bones for those growth strategies
will be very important. [music] This has
been a, you know, risk off company in a
risk on year.
To explain this stock price, so I expect
them to have more of an opportunistic
risk mindset going forward.
>> [music]
>> Here's the latest this morning. Bank of
America's Brian Moynihan gearing up to
host its first investor day in more than
a decade. Erica Allegra and of UBS has a
$60 price target and a buy rating on
Bank of America shares. Erica joins us
now for more. Erica, good morning. It's
always good to catch up with you. You've
got a buy rating on the stock. What are
you looking to hear from Brian Moynihan
and the team later on today?
So, like Mike was saying, now we have
these 16 to 18, uh, percent tangible ROE
targets, but we really need to hear more
of the meat on the bones. Now, a lot of
these segments had focused on how Bank
of America hasn't been taking enough
risk, and that's true, but also we want
to hear about how, you know, its
Thundering Herd, Merrill, for example,
um, you know, has fallen behind Morgan
Stanley. So, what does it do enable to
enable to catch up? That's a naturally
higher ROE business, and so really
fixing that and really moving that
forward is a big difference. But more
than that, to be quite frank with you,
Jonathan, it's more than just what they
say today. What the stock has to do to
continue to now lift from here and
outperform peers, right? Not just catch
up, but outperform peers, is to string
together the kind of quarter that they
just reported, right? It's going to be
not just about, you know, the show the
show story of today, but it's about, um,
you know, the show and tell story of
today, but it's about the execution of
earnings. Erica, you talked about this
in your recent note, and I think this is
a key point. From 30,000 ft,
is there a credible case here to grow
expenses slower than revenues? Do you
see the right recipe emerging at Bank of
America?
Yes, but if I think that's going to
require significant discipline from the
top. In any large bank like Bank of
America, there is always, always
inefficient expenses. You know, are we
keeping, you know, senior talent too
long, and are are we not, you know,
pushing forward younger talent? Are we
spending too much money on, you know,
offsites for ourselves rather than on
clients? So, I think that there is a
credible case, uh, for revenues to grow
faster than expenses, but management,
more than it has over the past 5 years,
has to be extraordinarily disciplined in
terms of how, you know, you know, how it
choose what expenses it chooses to grow.
How much is this, uh, the first investor
day since 2011 a way of deemphasizing
Brian Moynihan and really pushing
forward some new leadership?
Honestly, I don't think that's the case
at all, Lisa. After all, the company had
emphasized, um, a few months ago that
when they made that announcement, you
know, of those new leaders, um, that
Brian was going to stay on through the
decade. I think really the intention of
this is perhaps turning a leaf over and
saying, "Look, you know, we're going to
tell you about what comes next. What
comes after responsible growth?" And by
the way, the investor base gets to meet
JP Morgan's bench every single year. And
to your point, Lisa, we haven't really
met them, you know, since 2011, and I'm
sure a lot has changed since then. I
think this is an opportunity for BofA to
showcase the bench talent and the bench
strength. How much is some of the, uh,
ambition that they have in the expanded
targets predicated on the idea of a
different regulatory regime where they
can take more risk without getting
penalized on, uh, some of the capital
withholdings?
Yeah, that's a really great question,
and practically speaking, um, the
regulatory environment is going to be a
tailwind in that 3 to 5-year, you know,
medium-term,
um, time period that they note. However,
Lisa, this is going to be about the
numerator or earnings power, not the
denominator. For example, the street has
something like 23 billion in buybacks
already for 2026.
And yet, and yet the, um, consensus
return on tangible common equity for,
um, 2026 is 15% or lower than their 16
to 18% target. That means that for Bank
of America to really, uh, achieve those
targets, particularly at the high end,
um, where, you know, Wells and JP Morgan
essentially sit or exceed, they really
need, really, really need to power
revenue growth faster than expenses. And
that versus just optimizing the
denominator or capital is really the key
to share price outperformance. Erica,
you mentioned one business line, and you
went to Merrill. Can we talk about the
credit card business as well? What are
you expecting to see from that business?
Uh-huh, that's a a lot tougher. Look,
um,
Bank of America has materially
underperformed its peers in card, um,
from both a growth and a spend
perspective. And now you have the three
card juggernauts, JP Morgan, American
Express, Capital One, with big fat ROEs,
which means that they can invest
significantly back in those businesses,
building a significant moat around, um,
their market share. And so, I think that
the card business in terms of, um, you
know, turning it around, that's going to
be a tough climb because that is
actually going to require a lot of, um,
you know, expense investment up front.
Erica, this was great. So always good to
hear from you. Erica Allegra in there of
UBS with a buy rating on the stock,
looking ahead to that investor day with
Bank of America. The headlines crossing
just moments ago. The key ones for a lot
of investors, seeing return on tangible
common equity of 16 to 18% in 3 to 5
years.
>> Yeah, that was a significant increase.
They're also talking about seeing a 30%
dividend payout ratio, so really jacking
that up, too, as they try to, uh,
attract, uh, investors. Very curious
about the details. How do they bring
back some of the competition given what
a push Morgan Stanley has made, what a
push we've seen, uh, from some of the
biggest competitors and the inroads that
they have made.
>> Stock is slightly softer so far this
morning, down by 7/10 of 1%, but we've
seen one heck of a rally off the lows of
the year so far for that name and
others, too. Coming up on the program,
we'll catch up with Jim Zelter of
Apollo, the KeyCorp CEO, Chris Gorman,
and Kathryn Wild of the Partnership for
New York City. [music] From New York
City this morning, good morning. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
[music]
>> The economic picture looks okay. Things
haven't fallen apart yet.
>> There is some weakness under the
surface. The consumer seems bifurcated.
>> It's not only a K-shaped economy for the
consumer, it's actually also a K-shaped
economy for the corporate sector.
>> If things get worse, the Fed will
respond and cut aggressively. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
[music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Ann
Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now,
and your scores look like this. The
pullback continues. Building on
yesterday's losses, we're down by 0.2%
[music]
on the S&P 500, negative by 0.4 on the
Nasdaq 100. If you [music] switch at the
board and turn to the bond market,
attracting some capital yesterday, those
risk mitigation characteristics of
Treasuries flexed yesterday. Yields
down, down [music] again this morning by
a basis point at the front, and 356.76.
Later on this morning, a focus on the
data, ISM services, [music] and the big
one. I never thought I'd call it the big
one, but we've got nothing else. So,
it's the biggest, ADP, a little bit
later this morning.
>> market, and does it start showing the
weakness that we're seeing in some of
the earnings [music] that we saw from
ISM manufacturing, and the weakness that
I'm talking about is consumer aversion
to both, uh, eating out as well as just
absorbing some of the price increases
that you've seen more broadly. there is
a [music] bifurcation right now with the
AI story, which is gunning ahead despite
yesterday's hiccup, and the rest of the
economy that we have seen in some of
these earnings, and some of the small
caps that do indicate [music]
there is still an issue of affordability
out there, and we've seen that in the
political scene as well.
>> hits, Bremo, in the last week. It was
Cava in the last 24 hours, it was
Chipotle last week. There's a difficulty
here. Costs are up, and they're
struggling to pass them on, and the
revenue's just not there in the same
way. There's a bifurcation between older
people, older consumers, and younger
ones. The Cava CEO, this quote stood out
to me. When you look at the data,
whether [music] it's consumer sentiment,
Gen Z unemployment twice the national
average, or headwinds facing younger
consumers,
>> [music]
>> there is a chain-challenging
environment. That is what we heard from
Chipotle, also catering to younger
consumers, where the unemployment rate
is close to 10%.
>> Earnings just crossing from McDonald's
just moments ago. Third quarter comp
sales coming in at plus 3.6%, the
estimate plus 3.59,
an inline report from McDonald's on my
first look. The stock is down by about
1.4%, but affordability in this sector
[music]
is absolutely paramount. And it's
paramount also at the epicenter of the
politics. Lisa mentioned it, and you saw
that playing out overnight.
>> And in the exit polls, when you look at
what people were concerned about, they
said they were dissatisfied [music] with
the state of the economy and
affordability. This is what Mikie
Sherrill ran on in New Jersey, and this
is what Abigail Spanberger ran on in
Virginia.
>> [music]
>> I'm not surprised that these candidates
won. I'm not surprised that Prop 50
passed. What is a little bit more
unexpected is the margins that these
individuals won by. We're talking about
plus 10 in each of these races, and this
paints a difficult path for Republicans
next year. If the margins [music] are
this wide right now in this off-year
election.
>> More on the politics a little later this
hour. Kelly Gatlin catch up with Jim
Zelter of Apollo as valuations jitters
shake up Wall Street. Chris Gorman of
Key Corp with a new wave of regional
bank M&A, and Katherine Wild of the
Partnership for New York City as NYC
elects Zephyr Teachout as its new mayor.
We begin this hour focused on private
markets. Apollo Global Management just
posted third quarter earnings that
surpassed Wall Street estimates as the
firm edges closer to reaching $1
trillion of assets. The Apollo
President, Jim Zelter, joins us now for
more. Jim, good morning. Good morning.
Always good to be here. Congratulations.
We joked when you walked in, what
happens when you hit a trillion? Does
Mark run around popping champagne? How
does this work? Well, listen, as we've
said yesterday, we've said before,
assets under management are just a great
vote of confidence for great
performance. And if you deliver for
investors over time,
we find ourselves that that the the
flywheel of our business is really in
place, whether it was capital formation,
whether it was origination. You know, we
just find that our business model is
really hitting the mark right now and
accelerating,
and we're very happy with the quarter,
but feel very good about the trajectory
of the business in front of us. There's
a phrase that you and the team use, we
are what we originate. Can we talk about
that a little bit more? Sure. Your
capacity to scale, can you just flesh
that out? How things are tracking at the
moment?
Well, they're they're tracking very
well, but I I think if you go back to
our investor day six years ago and a
year ago, we really put a pin in the key
attribute of success in our business. As
we see the financing markets evolve,
when we see the evolution of of banking
system, when we see the evolution of
private capital, you know, many in our
industry, and we're guilty of it quite a
bit. In fact, your first question, we're
guilty of it. It's all about AUM. It's
not about AUM. It's about your ability
to really generate
very strong proprietary scale of
origination across the spectrum, whether
it's investment grade private credit or
private equity transactions and
everything in between. And we have taken
that to heart. We've invested a
tremendous amount of money in terms of
our origination platforms, and I think
that's what when investors come to us
today on the institutional side, when
sovereign funds come to us to partner,
when insurance companies come to
partner, yes, it's because of our
investor returns, but it's because of
our origination. And I just think that's
the bigger story here. People want to
talk about this company, that company,
First Brands, Tricolor. You know, it's
been 16 years since since the Great GFC.
The real story is the evolution of
modern finance and the role that we all
play. And so, I think that's the thread
and the theme that investors are are are
really engaging in today. I just got
back from nine countries in 2 and 1/2
weeks, which I'm happy to talk about,
and the impact around the globe of this
model evolving is really the story.
>> We'll spend some time on that. Just for
the record, you brought up First Brands,
>> [clears throat]
>> Tricolor before we did. We'll get to
that in just a moment, too. You want to
talk about origination, let's talk about
it. Of the debt that you originated, you
talked about this a bit yesterday. What
was the average rating? Are you able to
maintain excess spread as you scale up?
Yes. Yeah, so if you look at our we
think about the world investment grade
and non-investment grade, not not not
private and public. And when you think
about the spreads that we garnered in
terms of our non our investment grade
business, you know, it's in the
mid-300s,
and we've been able to really create
that spread over the last 24 months with
a little degradation of 15 to 20 basis
points year over year. On the
non-investment grade side, it's in the
mid-400s, and again, we've been able to
generate that spread over the last 24
months. And again, it's not just the
direct private lending, but it's all the
things you do to a sponsor. So, our
origination put footprint is about 80%
investment grade, 20% non-investment
grade, but really, it's the change of
the model in the in the last 20-30 years
as a credit invest investor or fixed
income investor, you were a
an agent in the market, whatever the
origination machine wanted to deliver
you, it was only price that you actually
had to negotiate. And so, you were an
agent with really not a lot of the
ability to really conduct and have the
outcome. In our model, where we're the
origination principal, where we actually
have an impact, it allows you really to
have a much greater degree of control of
documentation and return and yield, and
that's going to suit us well over time.
So, it's this principal-agent issue, and
we find ourselves really in the leading
pack of the origination principal model
versus the old model of an agent or
vendor model. And Jim, what this does is
it allows you to look at a lot of
documents. It allows you to look at a
lot of companies. It allows you to see a
broad swath of the economy to understand
exactly where the pitfalls may be. Do
you find some of these arguments about
cockroaches and in growing weakness in
the economy credible, or are you just
not seeing it in what you're reviewing,
even among the things that you're
rejecting?
You're 15-16 years in a credit cycle
right now in terms of the expansion
since the GFC. You're going to find
issues and challenges. In the last five
to seven years, you've had companies
like SVB and First Republic Bank. And
so, yes, these are clearly
idiosyncratic. We're seeing a much
larger theme of a strong economy.
Torsten talked about it yesterday in
terms of a K-shaped economy. We're
seeing an administration that's very
pro-business, anti-rate or, you know,
not very regulatory friendly, want to
push rates lower. And so, all of those
things were you will see
challenges in certain companies late in
a cycle, but we are not seeing any kind
of credit cycle on the horizon that's
that's waning anytime soon. We are not
seeing it.
>> Are you seeing a scary allocation of
resources? And I say this given the fact
that it has been very top-heavy to
AI-related endeavors. Deutsche Bank this
morning, a story in the Financial Times,
looking for ways to hedge against some
of their data center loans because
they're worried about the overall
concentration, the risk that you're
seeing overnight. Are you staying away
from that? Well, I think what you're
talking about is whenever you see a
massive impulse infusion of capital into
a sector, dark fiber, E&P shale in the
US, software enterprises, and now AI in
the broad ecosystem, you have to think
about debt and equity returns on
invested capital. And there's been a
tremendous rise in valuations on the
debt side on the equity side in the last
24 months, and certainly the assumptions
that you're making on the debt side as
an investor and a lender to those
companies, you're taking more residual
risk than you did 6, 12, 18 months ago.
So, valuations are high. You have to be
a bit more cautious. You want to be a
lot more senior. You want to be secured.
And so, I think there's going to be a
dispersion between returns between the
investment grade and non-investment
grade market, but that's just late cycle
behavior. And when you look around the
globe, as we talked about yesterday,
the valuations are high, geopolitical
risks are a bit greater, and we don't
see rates dramatically lower in the next
24 months. So, that tells us take the
risk down on subordinated credit, lean
into senior investment grade
opportunities.
>> Jim, we've seen these capex cycles
throughout economic history. You've
lived a few of them. I've had a long
career as well. But there's something
different about this one, and you're
well-versed in this in a way that I'm
not. Some of these assets depreciate
rapidly.
For you and the team, does that change
how you put together some of these deals
that you make?
>> It does. I mean, I I think you're you're
raising a really interesting point. Are
Are we thinking Is the right way to
think about a data center, utility lines
and electrical lines 70, 80, 90 years
ago, when day one all you were doing is
wiring the house for lights, and then
you hired wired the house for a
dishwasher, a TV, and everything else
that goes with it?
And how do you think about that
technology, and what really is the
advantage of that data center in 5, 10,
15 years with the power supply? I
differentiate that with how you might
finance a portfolio of chips, GPUs, that
rapidly depreciate over 3 to 5 years.
And there they might still all they
might both be in technology, but how you
fund and structure both of those is
very, very different. And I think that's
the subtlety behind behind the
headlines, which is going to
differentiate the winners and losers
because in every industry, even the last
20 years that I just mentioned, those
are all those are all sectors that drew
in a tremendous amount of capital and
you really don't know who the winner is
from the debt and equity side for a few
years. And so, certainly with valuations
as high as they are in this cycle right
now, you have to take a step back and
pause and say, "Okay, do I want to be a
a lender? Do I want to be an equity
owner? What's the residual value
assumptions that I'm making?" That's
really what will differentiate the
winners and losers.
>> I'm not sure how many people are taking
a step back, Lisa, at the moment. Right
now, it seems like absolutely nobody.
Those debt offerings are absolutely
flooding and frankly, there is a real
question about whether there's behavior
that potentially isn't as prudent as
what you're doing that could potentially
pose some sort of risk to the rest of
the market. Well, if you think about the
mag seven in the last five to seven
years, they have been a very, very small
participant of the IG new issue market.
In the last two months, there's been a
handful of these companies that have
been issued very, very large benchmark
transactions. And again, that's not a
zip code we play in day in and day out,
but you have to wonder as a CFO, are
they being very
strategic about accessing that financing
and what's the long-term return of those
opportunities? Jim, you're going to
stick with us on the other side. We've
got a lot to talk about. Jim Zeltzer
there of Apollo. Let's give you an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross
over to Yohai Remoe. Hey, Yohai. Hi,
John.
Self-proclaimed Democratic Socialist
Zohran Mamdani was elected as the 111th
mayor of New York City. Mamdani [music]
energized young voters with a campaign
for a more affordable New York City.
When he is sworn in on January 1st,
[music] the 34-year-old from Queens will
be the youngest person to hold the
office in a century. He'll also be New
York's first Muslim mayor and the first
person of [music] South Asian descent.
Meanwhile, the Supreme Court will hear
arguments on the legality of some of
President Trump's tariffs today. The
court will determine whether the
president can use IEEPA to impose import
taxes
>> [music]
>> after lower courts ruled he exceeded his
authority. If the court rules against
Trump, the administration won't be able
to collect [music] tariffs and may have
to refund those already paid.
And McDonald's reporting better than
expected third-quarter US sales growth.
The fast-food chain attributing the rise
mostly to higher spending per visit by
customers. [music] It's also reporting
growth in its international divisions
with its CEO saying the chain is
delivering sustainable growth even
[music] in a challenging environment.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
Yohai, thank you. Appreciate it. I'm
next on the program. Mamdani's New
[music] York City.
If anyone can show a nation betrayed by
Donald Trump how to defeat him, it is
the city that gave rise to him.
Conversation continues with Jim Zeltzer
of Apollo up next live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> It's a pretty risk-off market in the
last 24 hours. Continues this morning.
We're down by a quarter of 1% on the S&P
500, down by 0.4 on the Nasdaq 100.
Under Savannah's this morning, Mamdani's
New York [music] City.
New York,
TONIGHT YOU HAVE DELIVERED
>> [cheering]
>> A MANDATE FOR CHANGE.
A MANDATE FOR A NEW KIND OF POLITICS.
A MANDATE FOR A CITY WE CAN AFFORD. IF
ANYONE CAN SHOW A nation betrayed by
Donald Trump how to defeat him, it is
the city that gave rise to him.
So, here's the latest this morning.
Democratic Socialist Zohran Mamdani set
to become the 111th mayor of New York
City. Soaring to victory on the promise
of affordability. Bloomberg's Miles
Miller joins us now for more. Miles,
first action, first job for the new
mayor. What is it?
It's really to try to figure out a way
to get these progressive proposals
through in Albany, right? He's got to
come up with that coalition and then
also has to pick his team. Right now,
he's on another morning show, but when
he huddles with his team, he's got to
come up with a transition that includes
all of his coalition. It has to have
people from Wall Street. It has to have
people from tech and then people from
those labor centers that were critical
to getting him to the office. Now, what
we know is that this was one of the
biggest turnouts since 1969. If you look
back to that mayor's race, John Lindsay,
you know what happened to him the first
time he went to office on on
inauguration day? There was a transit
strike. Here's hoping that that doesn't
happen, but he's really got to work with
these groups that got him elected in
order to get this stuff done. We're
talking about his very big proposals.
He's had his mandate for change in this
city, freezing the rent,
making buses free and universal child
care. All of those things need to be
paid for. How that's going to happen
isn't clear, but he'll have to work with
business leaders including Wall Street.
>> Miles, looking forward to your coverage.
Thank you, sir. Miles Miller today from
City Hall with us around a table. Apollo
Global Management President Jim Zeltzer.
Jim, let's continue this. Jamie Dimon of
JP Morgan has said, "We survived Bill de
Blasio. We'll survive this." How do you
and the team think about this
development?
You know, we're committed. I've been in
New York 40 years. I'm a committed New
Yorker. The campaign is over. Now, it's
about the action plan. And he needs to
bring people together. He needs to get a
leadership team that can take on the
challenges of the most complicated city
in in in America.
And if you're a New Yorker, you want to
see success in this administration.
The campaign's over.
All the great promises. Now, it's about
delivering. It's like when you buy a
company, it's not you don't celebrate
the day you buy it. You celebrate the
day you sell it in three to five years.
So, I think there needs to be a change
in tone and he needs to bring the city
together. That's the big objective.
Bring the city together and bring the
best and the brightest to City Hall to
work with him. Bill Ackman said, "This
is an individual who spent a lot of
money trying to defeat him." Said, "Let
me know what I can do." So, that's the
approach it sounds like Apollo is
taking. What would you advise him?
Well, I I again, I I think number one,
you've heard it. People think, you know,
public safety is the number one fiscal
stimulus and there's a lot of concerns
about the campaign and what was said
about public safety and the focus on
that. So, I would focus on bringing
leadership together. I would focus on
really making sure that the city is safe
for all citizens and then try to create
a very logical engagement with all the
constituents. That's day one. That's day
one. Let's talk about what's happening
right now in the city economy, which is
what got Mamdani elected, affordability.
You want to talk about the transmission
of monetary policy as well. I think this
is important point. What can we do to
support this economy and not exacerbate
existing problems? Torsten lied Well,
yesterday, this if if he is right, which
I believe he is about the K economy in
terms of the differentiation between
those at the highest 20% and the bottom
20%,
you know, for the last 15, really since
the GFC around the globe and especially
in the US, we've leaned politicians have
sort of stood back and wanted the
monetary policy to solve all the
problems. There is only so much that
monetary policy can do. The fiscal
impact of leadership not only in the US,
but in Western Europe. I was there last
week. They really need to step up and
have a plan about technology investment,
employment education and a variety of
attributes that are not really monetary
policy impact. So, again, I think I'm
I'm not suggesting that we're not really
focused on what the next move of the Fed
are. They are critically important, but
we are skeptical that even a lower
impact and any kind of lower rates, it's
really just going to fuel what's going
on right now in the asset price frenzy
rather than having real impact on
affordability and housing. You know,
taking taking Fed funds down 25, 50
basis points, it doesn't solve your
housing crisis. You have a national
housing crisis with affordability. So, I
I think there needs to be a massive
pivot away from what monetary policy can
do and how really executive leadership
and and fiscal policy will have a bigger
impact.
>> Should and will are two different
things. And right now, it seems like the
Fed is probably going to cut rates once
more this year and then again several
times next year, especially potentially
with new leadership. Are you saying that
you don't buy the argument that that's
going to help the shoppers at Chipotle
and the shoppers at Cava be able to
afford their burritos and the
Mediterranean salad bowls more of more
efficiently and that instead it's going
to exacerbate the K and cause asset
price inflation that leads to a
potential threat to financial stability?
Yeah, I I I don't see
I've got a couple of I've got a couple
of 24 and 29-year-old.
Not suggesting that their consumer
attributes are going to change by, you
know, what the Fed does, but I just
don't see how the Fed policy of this
quarter or the next two quarters is
going to have a real impact on the
accentuation of the K economy. I just
don't see it. I see
I see it much, much broader and again, I
do think getting back to New York City,
we have a a portion of the economy and a
portion of the demographics that is very
focused on, you know, education, jobs,
employment, affordability and I just
think we got to think a much longer
perspective here. As an investor, if the
Fed does cut, do you lean into the
bubble? Do you say, "All right, well, if
you can't beat it, join it." And the
idea is you've got to take more risk and
get more returns.
>> That's not what we do. That's, you know,
there's folks who spend their day
spending time about where the equity
market's going this hour, this day, this
week. That's just not what we do. We're
we're much more focused on financing the
global industrial renaissance.
Transactions we announced with Orsted
last week or earlier this week or we did
um in in Europe with RWE. I was in
Germany in the last 10 days. Massive uh
global industrial capital needs. That's
what we're focusing our time today. And
that's what our investors want, too.
They want safe, robust, long duration
yield. Um whether the return on invested
capital of XYZ data center in 15 years
works, that's not what we do. There was
a headline yesterday on what you didn't
do. And that was take Papa John's
private. You probably don't want to talk
about that directly, but can we talk
about that broader business because Lisa
mentioned Cava and what's happened with
Chipotle. How tough is that business
right now? How difficult are things? I
think as a principal investor in equity
uh in private equity and private
capital, you think you need to think
about long-term consumer trends and
what's going to have an impact on
various business models. And for us, you
know, we've had a real value discipline
purchase price matters for the last last
35 years. It's served us extremely well.
And so, you know, I think that you have
to think about the evolution of consumer
sentiments consumer behavior and what
your impact is on different business
models. We've got about a minute left.
Can we finish on what I believe is a PR
battle between you and the banks at the
moment? Not you directly. It just feels
like everyone's trying to say the
cockroaches are somewhere else. And I
was listening to you yesterday. There
was something that you said about it
doesn't matter where the debt
originates, the asset manager or the
bank. Why is that such an important
point? Because I think we've
collectively lost our way. We sit on top
of this amazing economy and what we have
just found is the litmus test of quality
is not public or private. We've sort of
have collectively lost our way. The
litmus test was how good the company is
and how they will perform in their
business model. And again, you've got
great investors in credit, you got great
banks, you got great insurance
companies. There will be a dispersion of
returns over a more challenging cycle.
So, we're committed to open
architecture. We have amazing
relationships and partnerships with many
many banks. Some of which are public,
many of which are private, and we're
going to continue that and it really
helps us our origination. But I I think
the longer story that gets written will
really be about credit quality and the
sustainability of your business rather
than something is public private. That's
not the litmus test.
>> Jim, it's good to see you. Always good
to be here. Thanks for being here. Thank
you, sir. Jim Glass
of Apollo. That PR battle has been
pretty clear, hasn't it, over the past
few weeks?
>> Well, I'm smiling because I'm sorry,
with all due respect, Jim, it sounds
like someone who's on top who can be
conciliatory. Hey guys, let's all get
along and then other people are like,
"Look, this is a Jets and the Sharks.
You're eating our lunch." And there is a
little bit of this sort of feeling right
now. The cockroaches are right for that.
Yeah, the cockroaches they're doing
something bad because they're
accumulating a lot of assets. I'm just
Bank Bank profits have been incredibly
strong and the and the greatest
financial institutions in the world are
[music] based in the US. Well said, Jim.
Thank you, guy. All right. Coming up on
the program, more on those financial
institutions. KeyCorp chairman and CEO,
Chris Gorman, as regional bank mergers
gain momentum. He joins us next from New
York. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
[music]
>> The opening bell two hours away. Your
scores look like this. Equity futures on
the S&P slightly negative. We're down by
2/10 [music] of 1% on the S&P 500.
Analogous to yesterday's losses likewise
on the Nasdaq, the epicenter for this
move
>> [music]
>> in big tech. We're down by about 0.3%.
That's the stock story. In the bond
markets, which are the board, we look
like this. Twos, 10s, and 30s. The whole
curve shifting lower in the last 24
hours. The move continues. Twos at 3.56,
[music]
10s at 4.1%. Later on this morning, two
important data points. ADP for the jobs
report. Look out for that. No [music]
payrolls, of course, this week. No
nonfarm payrolls. And then ISM services.
You want a snapshot of the broader
economy right now? That's an important
data [music] point later this morning.
Especially because ISM manufacturing
came in and you saw real weakness in the
employment factor as well as in prices.
[music] You did not see that
inflationary read-through. Also add to
that at 1:30 today what you get the
Treasury refunding announcement, [music]
too. So, we get to understand how much
this is not just a question of the
overall economic backdrop, but also
Treasury [music] supply and how much
they're refunding T-bills.
>> The good news I've got for you this
morning is that the bond market is
working. You know, it's working.
Totally.
>> Bonds are doing what bonds are meant to
do. [music] Equities aren't doing well
and people are buying fixed income. And
guess what? It's not Bitcoin. And guess
what? It's not some of these
>> Bitcoin's been tough, hasn't it? It has
been and at one point it actually
Bitcoin returns dropped below the
returns of US Treasury so far this year.
So, you know, the whole sort of boost of
the momentum trade definitely fading
back and you are seeing things respond
in a more traditional manner. To state
the obvious, November isn't April.
November isn't April in the price
action, either. Bonds [music] were
getting sold off, the dollar was getting
sold off. The dollar has been bid over
the previous five sessions, five days of
dollar strength against the euro this
morning. Pulling back just a little bit
on the dollar side of things. The euro
positive. [music] Euro dollar at the
moment around 1.1490.
As we count you down to the opening
bell, let's get you some morning movers,
some single names. Let's cross over to
Yohai Ra for more. Hey, Yohai Ra. Hi,
John. McDonald's is proving its value
pitch still works. Shares are now
higher, up 1%. The fast food chain
posting
>> [music]
>> better than expected sales growth thanks
to customers spending more per visit.
It's a different story from what we've
heard from Chipotle and Cava, which of
course serve higher income diners. So,
it appears McDonald's [music] efforts as
becoming as restoring its reputation as
affordable as an affordable option are
working at a time when customers [music]
are seeking value. Meanwhile, AMD shares
in the red down nearly 4 and 1/2%.
[music] Now, that's despite AMD beating
on pretty much everything. Sales,
profit, you name it, but failing to live
up to the high expectations after shares
more than [music] doubled this year. And
the problem was fourth its fourth
quarter revenue forecast specifically.
It did beat, but failed to hit the
highest mark
>> [music]
>> set by analysts. And we end on the AI
server maker Super Micro Computers.
Those shares are down
>> [music]
>> more than 7% now after issuing another
weak forecast projecting lower than
expected profit and sales for the for
the current quarter even after trimming
estimates heading into the report. John.
Yohai Ra, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Yohai Ra in just a
moment. On our radar this morning,
Democrats [music] sweeping the three
major local elections by wider than
expected margins. New York City electing
Zara Mamdani for mayor. New Jersey
selecting Mikey Sherrill as governor.
And Abigail Spanberger winning the
Virginia governor's race. Elsewhere, at
least seven people are dead after a
fiery UPS cargo jet crash in Louisville,
Kentucky. Shocking video overnight. At
least 11 people suffering injuries. The
cause of the crash is under
investigation. And finally, Bank of
America CEO, Brian Moynihan, gearing up
to host the bank's first investor day in
more than a decade. Bank of America
laying out new financial targets to
raise earnings over the next several
years. Yeah, and coming out with a
target tangible common equity to 16 to
18% versus the 15% currently. Also
talking about ways to expand their
profitability in areas like the cards,
like some of the wealth management where
they haven't been able to have that
Merrill Bull compete with some of the
others, in particular Morgan Stanley,
that have gained. Real question here,
how much does this actually include AI
increasing its increasing the efficiency
and some of the efficiency targets? How
much does this have to do with the idea
they can take more risk given some of
the regulatory regime right now?
>> you nailed it on the AI thing. On tech,
absolutely. They've made some massive
investments and from the sources I've
spoken to that are familiar with this
conversation, that's the story.
Efficiency, Lisa. And going back to the
conversations we've had repeatedly with
Brian Moynihan over the last couple of
years, efficiency. Being able to
generate additional dollars of revenue
without needing to have the same level
of staff to achieve it. That's an
improving story.
>> It's not layoffs. It's lack of hiring.
It's the idea that you can do more with
a footprint that stays the same. And so,
how do they expand out? How are they
deploying that? Right now, AI has been a
bit of spaghetti thrown at the wall.
Exactly how it's going to create
profitability has been a bit of a
question. How they're going to lay that
out in this investor day that starts, I
believe, at 9:00 a.m. Eastern. It's
going to be really compelling. Looking
forward to hearing from Brian Moynihan a
little bit later on that. The stock's
had a great run recently. We're down
just a little bit this morning by about
1%. Let's stick with the banks. Regional
bank M&A activity gaining momentum with
a slew of recent deals as the Trump
administration eases regulation. I'm
pleased to say that joining us now for a
deeper conversation is the KeyCorp
chairman and CEO, Chris Gorman. Chris,
good morning. It's good to see you. Good
morning. Thanks for being here. What is
it with the higher banking right now?
Everyone seems to be focused on that in
the regional bank space. What's it all
about?
>> Well, it's it's interesting, you know,
there there's been a dearth of
transactions for many years and then all
of a sudden there's been several. Um and
I think there's a few reasons for that.
I think one, it used to take so long to
get these deals approved that I think
people were hesitant to do it. And now
what we're seeing is these deals are
getting approved in like four months,
which I think after being a dearth of
activity, I think you're going to I
think you're going to see probably more
consolidation in our industry. After
all, there's 4,400 market participants.
Lisa, we saw this in the previous
administration. There would be deals
that would cross. And you and I would
both turn to Anne Marie. Even if the
deal made sense, never mind how long is
this going to take? Is it [snorts] even
going to happen? What is even Michael
Kors? What was it? Michael Kors and not
even the manufacturing
>> Yeah, yeah. Like affordable luxury.
>> Whatever that means. I mean, there was a
real question of what's going to get
across. So, there's a question now of
whether these are deals that have been
pent up or whether these are deals that
need to happen for efficiencies of scale
and to compete with the big dogs, right?
Do you need to actually have this
consolidation?
>> you feel like you need to make this
happen? You need to participate. No, we
really don't. We have a great path for
organic growth, which creates a ton of
value. And so, we're not really focused
on acquisitions. We're not really
focused on growing scale that way. You
know, scale question's an interesting
one. I said there were 4,400
market participants. There's only, you
know,
those that are over a hundred billion
dollars, there's only 30 of us. And so
you have this this strange market
structure where you have all these
market participants, but you do have a
lot of consolidation at the top. The
four biggest lenders have probably 25%
of the assets if you look at 50% of the
assets if you look at the top 25 banks.
So we feel like, you know, our strategy
is to go out there and and we always
talk about targeted scale, knowing where
we want to grow our business, where we
win, how we win, why we win. And so our
strategy is really one of organic
growth. So where are you winning? How
are you winning? And why are you winning
right now?
>> Sure. So we're focused on a couple
things. We have seven industry verticals
and where we're focused as middle
market. We have this integrated
corporate and investment bank focused on
the middle market. So where we win is in
those seven industry verticals where we
spend all of our time and where we
frankly deploy all of our capital. We
research these companies. That's where
we win and we win consistently. We're
talking about M&A in the banking sector,
but there's been a huge wave of M&A more
broadly throughout the sector,
particularly middle market. And I wonder
what do you see as behind that? Is this
an endorsement of credit markets,
capital markets being wide open and
saying please go for it and we'll
finance it or is this out of necessity?
That in order to grapple with tariffs,
in order to grapple with policy
uncertainty, in order to grapple with
inflation, they need to be bigger, they
need to have efficiencies of scale. I
think it's all those things. And I think
I think, you know, you've seen a lot of
large deals announced just recently. The
middle market is just picking up steam.
And the private equity firms are sitting
on about a trillion dollars of dry
powder. There haven't been a lot of
exits. There's about three or four
trillion of those probably in the
backlog. And so all of the sudden, based
on tariffs, based on the need to get
larger, based on the need for liquidity
of many of the holders of these middle
market companies, we see our backlogs
are at record levels right now. So I
think the middle market is really going
to start
to you'll you'll see a lot of
announcements.
>> that is predicated on the idea that the
Fed's going to be cutting rates further
and that the Fed already has been
reducing those benchmark interest
expenses.
>> Yeah, I don't think Lisa, I don't think
that's what drives it. I think when when
when the forward showed that there'd be
four cuts or six cuts or seven cuts, I
think that stymied people because why
not wait? But I think most everyone it's
kind of settled in kind of a
a 4% 10 year. I think that you can
transact, you know, consistently there.
I don't think the Fed cutting another
once or twice is going to make any
difference. When it comes to bank
consolidation, we're sitting here on the
morning after a massive election where
the margins for Democratic winners were
very big. Are you concerned that all of
this consolidation, deregulation, is
just going to change hands in three
years time? I hope not. I think from a
regulatory perspective, it's not a
healthy environment to have the pendulum
swinging back and forth. You know, when
you're running these businesses, what
you want is you don't want the
politicization of regulation. What you
want is consistent regulation,
particularly in banking around safety
and soundness. And safety and soundness
really consists of three things. It's
liquidity, capital and earnings. And I
think that's where the regulators are.
So I think it'll be consistent going
forward.
>> fair to say that hope is not a strategy
and there's a three year window now to
get it done if you need to?
I don't I don't look at it that there's
a narrow window. I think, you know,
we're playing the long game. I think you
have to I think, you know,
you have to think way ahead. You have to
think five and 10 years ahead. And I
don't think trying to jam something in
some kind of window that may or may not
exist, I don't think that's a good
strategy.
>> to spend some time with you as well
tracking credit quality. We spent the
last 40 minutes or so talking about it.
What are you seeing with loans at the
moment? Non-performing loans, net
charge-offs. How are things developing?
The our our credit book is in really
good shape. If you look at any metrics,
delinquencies, criticized, classified,
if you look at our consumers, our
consumers have more money in their
accounts today than they did
pre-pandemic. Hard to believe.
And now we have we have a super prime
book, but we're not seeing any cracks in
the credit cycle.
>> what I wanted to get to, Chris. Does
that tell me more about the discipline
of KeyCorp or does it tell me something
about the broader economy? Well, I'd
like to think that we're a very
disciplined lender. I mean we've always
thought, you know, we don't go out and
look for assets per se. We go out and we
target certain customers. We bring them
into the bank and to the extent we can
help them with their balance sheet, we
do. But we're not out there just trying
to grow assets. I think we're very
disciplined, but I also think the
economy is in good shape. My personal
view is that the growth of the economy
is probably accelerating. Does that
include acceleration in hiring early
next year? We've talked about how a lot
of companies have put on hold some of
their investment plans and their hiring
plans to try to get more policy
certainty. Do you see that coming to the
fore in the first quarter and then we'll
see that re-acceleration that you're
talking about?
>> I think it depends on the industry. We,
for example, have been very public. We
we think we've got these unique
platforms. We're trying to grow our
front line folks by 10% this year. We'll
continue to be in the market recruiting
next year. And I do think, you know,
people do find efficiencies though. I
think one of the things that that, you
know, you really learn during the
pandemic is that people can get pretty
efficient pretty quickly. And so I'm not
sure there's I'm I think the labor
market, my view of the labor market is I
don't think it's completely rolling
over, but Lisa, I think it's going to be
relatively flat. You know, the Fed's
going to have a decision to make I think
at some point, you know, do they focus
on the labor market or do they focus on
an economy that might be accelerating?
>> I'm so pleased you've gone there and
Lisa's right to bring it up. We hope we
see the employment alongside the growth,
but there is a question mark over that.
We're trying to work out what's holding
it back. So you talk about
re-acceleration, but you're not leaning
into hiring aggressively and we've heard
that from others, too. Is it technology
and technological advancements that give
you pause at the moment to wait to see
how things develop? What is it? Well, I
think people just get more and more and
more efficient. And I think people
realize they can do more with less. We
actually are hiring, particularly as I
mentioned,
>> Yep. our front line folks. But I think
that I think it's possible to have a
growing economy and a relatively flat
labor market. And
you know, if you think about technology,
if you think about people getting just
better at really processing their
business, if you think about businesses
getting more focused, doing fewer things
better,
so I think there's a lot at play. Chris,
this was great. Super insightful. It's
good to see you, sir. Thank you. The
KeyCorp CEO, Chris Gorman there, really
speaking to the moment in this market
right now, anticipating that growth next
year and the confusion at the Federal
Reserve as they look at this steep
drop-off in employment. How do you deal
with a dual mandate that's directly in
conflict? And that is the increasing
question. Of course, we don't know
whether that increasing acceleration of
growth is going to come with inflation.
But right now, you talk to banking
executives and they say things are okay.
You talk to people who are in the
employment market, it feels very
different.
>> steep drop-off in employment growth.
Right.
>> That's been the story so far this year.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Back with us, here's
Yahara Ayahara. Hi John. Cava shares are
lower 6% in the pre-market. The fast
casual chain [music]
cut its full year sales growth targets
after seeing foot traffic stall in the
third quarter. Its [music] results
mirror those of Chipotle, which shared
it saw consumers pull back across all
income groups.
Meanwhile, BMW [music] says demand for
its new EVs is exceeding expectations.
The carmaker is seeing particularly
[music] strong demand in Europe while
facing fierce competition in China. It
warned that earnings could be hit by
changes in tariff policy or Chinese
export curbs on key materials. [music]
And a programming note, tune in to
Bloomberg TV at 4:30 p.m. this afternoon
for a live interview with the directors
of Can't Look Away, The Case Against
Social Media. The documentary based on
[music] Bloomberg investigative
reporting exposes the real world
consequences of harmful algorithms.
That's your Bloomberg brief, [music]
John. Yahara, thank you. Appreciate it.
Up next on the program, a big win for
the Democratic Socialist.
The working people of New York have been
told by the wealthy and the
well-connected that power does not
belong in their hands. Tonight,
AGAINST ALL ODDS, we have grasped it. Up
next, Kathryn Wylde of the Partnership
for New York City. From New York City
this morning, you're watching Bloomberg
TV.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Live from New York, welcome to the
program. Here are the scores this
morning, pulling back by just a tenth of
1% on the S&P [music] 500, erasing
losses from earlier on this morning, but
adding to what we saw in yesterday's
price action. We're down by about a
quarter of 1% on the Nasdaq 100. And
this happens this morning, a big win for
the Democratic Socialist.
For as long as we can remember,
the working PEOPLE OF NEW YORK have been
told by the wealthy and the
well-connected that power does not
belong in their hands. Tonight,
against all odds, WE HAVE GRASPED IT.
>> [cheering]
>> THE FUTURE IS IN our hands.
So here's the latest this morning,
Democratic Socialist Jumaane Williams
winning the New York City mayoral race
with 50.4% of the vote. Kathryn Wylde,
CEO of the Partnership for New York
City, writing the following. Ultimately,
the impact of the election on business
will depend on the extent to which
Williams appoints competent deputies and
commissioners to run city agencies.
Kathryn joins us now for more. Kathryn,
good morning. Good morning. Thank you
for being here with us in New York City.
Let's talk about some of this. What did
New York just vote for?
Well, I think number one, we have to
look at the fact that more voters came
out to vote for mayor than we've seen in
the 56 years since 1969, which was my
first election in New York when John
Lindsay was elected on the
on the liberal line, actually. So, so
this was a a big turnout, and I think it
reflects the frustration of the New York
City voters with a couple of things.
Number one, the high cost of living and
doing business in New York City, and
which
Zohran Mamdani spoke very effectively
to.
And and it reflects a frustration with a
series of politicians who have
disappointed
New Yorkers. Those high marks in terms
of the how many people came out to vote
was fueled by support of Mamdani, but
also those that were against him.
There's a lot in the business community
have a lot of concerns. Has he assuaged
those concerns yet? I cannot say that he
has assuaged those concerns completely.
After the primary election, when
everybody was shocked that he beat
Andrew Cuomo by 13 points in that in
that primary in June, he reached out,
actually called me right away, and said,
"Tell me which business leaders I should
meet with to
learn from them and to show them that
I'm not going to socialize their
businesses."
>> you advise he meet with? I gave him a
number of I gave him a long list of
people. I mean, our co-chairs of the
partnership, Rob Speyer and Albert
Bourla, and Jamie Dimon, obviously,
Larry Fink. Leaders from across come up
from across the industry, as well as the
small business representatives, the
borough chambers of commerce, the
restaurant hospitality association, so a
mix. We have a lot of reporting that
what business leaders wanted to see was
to him to tap Jessica Tisch to continue
to lead the NYPD, be the commissioner
there. Is it your understanding that
she's going to stay? Well, I think she's
going to stay, and and I will say that
that was the number one priority. It was
an important signal both to
the business community about the public
safety. As employers, they want the city
to be safe, and Jessie has done a great
job. They just announced this week that
crime is down again this month, another
6 and 1/2% on her watch. So, that was a
big ask, and the fact that her family is
iconic in the city's Jewish community. I
think it was also another important
piece of that. Mamdani
did say that he would retain her. I know
they have spoken, and she has she was
not going during during the campaign,
she was not going to make a commitment
one way or the other, cuz she doesn't
think it's professional
for her in her job as police
commissioner to participate in
campaigns, but I'm
hopeful and optimistic that she will
stay. She loves her job. She says her
mission is not finished. So, I'm I'm
very hopeful. You've been in the city a
long time, tracked its politics, and
been a nexus between business and the
political sphere. And I'm just wondering
if you've seen real evidence of people
leaving the city in fear of higher taxes
or some sort of regime that makes it
less desirable for them. Well, this
people are leaving the city because of
high costs in general, and taxes are
part of that. And for those who think
and and a big concern about uh
our incoming mayor is that he may think
that somehow spending more government
money is going to make the city more
affordable, when in fact it's exactly
the opposite. City and state budget
spending has gone up over 50% in the
past decade, and that's driving our
affordability crisis. So, hopefully we
will be successful in finding other ways
to fund some of the new mayor's
priorities. Is there any evidence that
that's on his
on his docket? Because he talked about
raising taxes on the wealthiest
individuals. He talked about paying for
it that way. Is there any sense that
there is some sort of awareness of the
debt and sort of the debt cycle that
cities can get into that can make things
less affordable? Well, New York City has
a legal debt limit, and we also
since the financial crisis of the 1970s,
if the mayor gets too aggressive about
his spending, a financial control board
comes into place, and the state takes
over the city finances. So, we don't
have to worry about New York City going
bankrupt again. So, that's a that's a
check on that. In the conversations with
him about
the the danger of raising taxes in terms
of New York's competitiveness, I mean,
right now
those of us professionals in New York
are paying 55% of their income in taxes
to federal, state, and city government.
You move to Florida or Texas, you're
paying 38%. So, that's a pretty big
number
that we have to take into consideration.
So, I think that he's going to become
more practical as he sees the
implications. He has said, "I have my
goals. I want to achieve them, but I'm
wide open on how to do that." And that's
an opening, I think, for business
expertise to help him figure this out.
>> achieve them, he says he's going to
raise taxes, but Governor Hochul says,
"I can't lose any more people to Palm
Beach." To your point, looking at the
tax differentials. So, can he even
attempt to raise taxes without the
governor on board?
He cannot raise corporate or personal
income taxes without Well, that's not a
city prerogative. That is a state
prerogative. He can raise real estate
taxes, but he has said, as he's thought
about the implications of freezing the
rent, he has said he will actually do
property tax reform and try and reduce
taxes on rent-regulated commercial
buildings, multi-family buildings. So, I
am
I think that as we see who his
appointments are, and how he takes input
on his appointments. Last night, I was
very pleased that the tax word was not
mentioned in his acceptance speech as
mayor. So, that was that was a good
sign.
And and he also started out how he's
going to achieve his goals is we're
going to reduce the cost of government
and reduce bureaucracy. So, he's
sounding more and more like Mike
Bloomberg.
We can only hope, Catherine. It's good
to see you. Thank you.
>> Thank you. Thanks for having me.
>> partnership for New York City. This is a
pretty low bar, isn't it? The city won't
go bankrupt. That's my takeaway from
this conversation. Yeah, I mean, it's
sort of a long
long big gap between where we are and
bankruptcy and shades of potential pain.
But look, this is the question. A lot of
Zohran Mamdani's goals really are a
question mark, because there are a lot
of aspirations that are not achievable
without getting some sort of consensus.
So, now the question is,
to your point, who are the commissioners
going to be? Who actually stays there?
How much are they empowered to do what
they want to do? That's the first
comparison that I've heard from anyone,
Zohran and Mike Bloomberg.
>> Maybe it'll catch on. Yeah, we'll see. I
think a lot of New York City voters
might be wanting something else, but
okay. Coming up on the program, Matt
Stucky of Northwestern Mutual, plus
Morgan [music] Stanley's Michael Gapen
and Matt Hornbach. Looking forward to
the conversation. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
>> [music]
[music]
>> At the end of the day, you're not going
to hit all-time highs day after day
after day.
>> Investors should still expect that there
can be some volatility.
>> Conditions have become increasingly
fragile.
>> We have nice earnings growth, but it's
being pushed by Mag 7.
>> We are going to see a broadening out of
the market. I think we're heading into
Goldilocks. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Anne Marie Hoardern.
It's payrolls Wednesday. Can't get used
to that. It's ridiculous.
>> get used to it.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
Your scores look like this. Losses
yesterday, a little bit of
follow-through this morning. We're down
by 1/10 of 1% on the S&P 500. [music]
On the Nasdaq, we're down by 0.2. In the
bond market, a rally yesterday, this
morning. 2s, 10s, 30s, pretty stable.
10s at 4.08%. 2s at 3.57. 14 [music]
minutes from now, this right here, the
ADP employment report. A major focus for
Wall Street, given there's not much else
to focus on on the jobs front. So, right
now, the estimate we don't have a
whisper number, cuz there isn't a
whisper ADP number yet, but the estimate
is 30,000 jobs created compared to a
32,000 decline that we saw in the prior
month of ADP employment numbers. [music]
People might be saying, "Are you kidding
me? What are these numbers you're giving
me?" At the same time, as John said,
this is all we have to give a read on
the US employment [music] market at a
time where there is a fissure, and I
think that Chris Gorman of KeyBank
really put it well. Right now, we could
see a reacceleration of the economy
without commensurate job growth. What
does that do for the Fed, and how does
that signal people's ability to keep on
spending to fuel this, given the fact
that employment isn't picking up pace? I
admire the seven economists that put
together some estimates for Friday,
anyway. Did you notice [laughter] that?
I did not notice that.
>> Seven of them, actually. Yeah, the
median is negative 20. [music]
We're not going to get a number on
Friday, but they've put together an
estimate for us, anyway.
>> What do you think people do without the
data? I mean, think about how many
people spend their day all day parsing
through data that they no longer have. I
mean, they got to find something to do,
so you come up with estimates for
something that's not going to come out.
>> Michael Gapen of Morgan Stanley joins
[music] in a moment. You can ask him.
Great. I'm looking forward to it.
>> I'm pleased you brought up that point,
though. We caught up with KeyBank in a
previous hour, and he's talking about an
economy that's reaccelerating. So,
there's a regional bank. We're not
talking about one of the big players on
Wall Street. A regional bank saying,
"Look, at what we see, our loan book's
pretty solid right now. Don't see the
credit stress. And, [music] by the way,
I also expect a pick up in growth in the
new year." And that's what this equity
market, away from [music] the big tech
story, that's what the bulls have been
looking for into 26.
>> Yeah, Jim Zelter kind of also talked
about this real pick up in activity.
Yes, we're late [music] cycle when it
comes to the credit markets, but at the
same time, it doesn't seem like this
economy is falling off a cliff. So, it
raises a question. Does the Fed need
[music] to cut? And if the Fed cuts
rates, will that only exacerbate the
K-shaped economy that much more, or will
[music] it give fuel to the shoppers at
Chipotle and Cava to be able to go out
and and and spend a little bit more?
>> been a struggle. Look, it's been a
problem. Cava this morning in the last
24 hours after the bell yesterday, saw
it with Chipotle last week. You are
seeing a warning [music] from these fast
casual restaurants who are saying,
"Look, this is the situation right now.
Yes, of course we've got our own
problems." They never admit them, but of
course they've got them. Okay, we know
that with Chipotle, but if you're
looking at the consumer costs are up and
we can't pass on those costs. That's a
big difference. That's a major
distinction between where we are now and
where we were coming out of the pandemic
and why the likes of Governor Maura and
Governor Waller aren't worried about the
inflation story at the moment.
>> McDonald's, for example, came out also
today this morning. [music] They
reported earnings that were pretty much
in line and yet their shares selling
off. They were saying, "What was the
leadership? The sales?
>> [music]
>> Any kind of deals? Something that makes
people feel like they are getting
value." If you take a look at Black Box
Intelligence, fast food traffic is down
2.3% [music]
compared with a 1.6% drop for
restaurants overall. You are seeing it
among the younger cohorts and among the
young lower income cohorts and that I
think is what a lot of people are
focusing on. Cava cratered this morning
down by close to 7% in the pre-market.
Coming up on the program, Matt Stucky of
[music] Northwestern Mutual as the tech
sell-off continues and Morgan Stanley's
Michael Gapen joins us alongside Matt
Hornbach as we break down the latest
jobs data in just a moment. That data
drops in about 11 minutes time. We begin
this hour with stocks lower following a
sell-off in chips erasing $500 billion
in value as fears of an AI bubble
continue to grow. Matt Stucky of
Northwestern Mutual writing the
hyperscaler capex party isn't slowing
down. Bond offerings were materially
oversubscribed, which suggests that the
market is comfortable underwriting some
of this circular revenue. Matt join us
now for more. Matt, welcome to the
program. I want to pick up on that point
because we have seen spreads, high yield
spreads widen just a little bit, but to
your point, we haven't seen much
pushback in the credit market to this
theme. Is it difficult to put together a
sustainable bear case given how much the
credit market seems to love what's on
offer over the last week?
Look, I think it's difficult to put any
kind of credible bear case in place when
earnings revisions are up into the right
and they're leading the market higher,
specifically in some of these
hyperscalers and the benefits are
accruing to some of the providers of of
those capex buildout areas. So, you
know, that's the Nvidias of the world,
the AMDs of the world.
You know, just year-to-date, you're
looking at just a material move higher
in 2026 capex estimates
to the tunes of hundreds of billions of
dollars and if you're trying to be a
bear in this situation, you know, it it
just day after day, you know, those
numbers keep grinding higher and higher.
And so, if you're if you're an analyst
looking at kind of what drives equities,
earnings revisions is a major major
input to that and it's continuing to
move in the right direction if if you're
in the bullish camp there. A couple of
data points building on that, Matt.
Three. Let's pick them out. So, we had
Meta last week, Palantir early this
week, AMD overnight. What does that tell
you? That performance and how the price
how the stock has reacted to it?
You know, I think specifically if you're
looking at those companies,
they all have one thing in common. It's
just
performance that's off the charts. And
so, with that elevated performance
profile comes elevated expectations. And
so, despite what I
I think anyone would agree or were
strong
strong numbers, it just wasn't quite
enough to meet that elevated
expectations bar. But I think if you
listen to the message during the
earnings calls, you know, they
executives on these companies weren't
talking about the business slowing down.
In fact, they're talking about it
continuing to expand at an accelerated
rate. And so, to me, I I I think this is
just more of a positioning kind of
working through some of that excess
performance churn
as you think through about how these are
likely to perform in the future. I'm
struggling to understand exactly what's
driving these stocks. Is it vibes
because ultimately the financials don't
seem to be relevant when you're talking
about ultimately a faith-based index. I
mean, you're talking about companies
that have future growth off the charts
with a technological revolution that's
hard to imagine that we don't understand
fully how to monetize yet. So, how do
you know how to get involved, when to
get involved for your investors?
You know, for our clients, what we are
saying is that, you know, while it's
exciting to see some of the performance
in some of these names that you you can
call it vibes, you can call it some of,
you know, maybe even memes throw back to
2021.
You know, one thing that you always want
to make sure of as an investor is that
the fundamentals that are being reported
are commensurate with the price action
that you're seeing on your screen.
In some cases, that's true. In other
cases, it's not. You know, quantum
computing,
you know, nuclear stocks would be
probably more of, you know, the more
speculative area, but you know, in terms
of, you know, hyperscaler activity,
order books for semiconductor companies
and the results that they're generating,
yeah, we would say that the fundamentals
are are backing up what we're seeing in
terms of performance. And so, that's an
important delineation.
And in markets, however, we are seeing
some of that kind of more speculative
activity being the driving force
post-liberation day of moving markets
higher. That's not to say that you
aren't seeing good performance from
areas where they do have that
fundamental backstop in terms of, you
know, stronger revenue, stronger than
expected earnings and those kind of
being growth rates that are in excess of
what you're seeing in the overall
market. Matt, one thing that John was
pointing to earlier this morning is that
it should feel pretty good to see that
bonds are acting normally over the past
couple of days that as we have seen a
sell-off in some of these riskier areas,
you have seen the normal knee-jerk
risk-off flight to safety in Treasuries
that you didn't see after the April 2nd
liberation day announcement. How much
does that feel make you feel good about
the idea of bonds as a ballast and not
necessarily
a risk to portfolios?
I think that that should give investors
a lot of comfort and we were just
talking about that at a conference that
we're hosting here at our headquarters
this last few days is that you know,
we're unlikely to see a repeat of what
we saw in 2022 where every major asset
class went down, whether it was bonds,
whether it was equities. You know,
you're at a starting point yields where
the return skew is much more in your
favor just in terms of shocking rates up
or up or down 100 basis points. And so,
portfolio construction does have its
have has its use again in terms of, you
know, bond providing a nice ballast to
portfolios and in fact, over the last
year,
you know, total return for the the
Barclays AGG has actually exceeded that
of Bitcoin. And so, it's it's performing
well in portfolios, being a diversifier
and and also, you know, generating, you
know, upper single-digit returns. And
so, that's that's a welcome sight for
investors. Matt, is there a tell on the
back of the recent developments in
crypto and Bitcoin? You mentioned
Bitcoin. Is there a tell there for the
broader market?
That's a really good question. You know,
I'm not the crypto guy in the office,
but I would say that, you know, if there
is some speculation leaving the market
that we've seen kind of burn off last
few trading sessions, areas like
cryptocurrency, which, you know, to a
certain extent are somewhat of a levered
Nasdaq play,
are are one of those areas that could
come under pressure. So, maybe that's a
little bit of a tell that some of the
speculation needs to leave the market,
but, you know, so far, you know, we we
it's not something that that we're
really focused on in terms of portfolio
construction, but it is maybe a little
bit of a tell in terms of what type of
environment, you know, investors are are
navigating today. I'm not the crypto guy
in the newsroom, either. That's Matt
Miller. I wish I was based on some of
the price action over the last few
years. Matt, thank you, sir. Matt Stucky
there of Northwestern Mutual Wealth
Management. The good news is in the bond
market, look, I know silver silver
linings and all of that. Some very dark
gray clouds based on the price action of
the last 24 hours. Let's just take stock
of things. I saw these headlines about
the Philadelphia semi index losing 400
something billion dollars in a session.
We added 500 in 5 days. In just the last
week, we've had a massive run-up in that
index.
>> This is what actually stands out to me
and I'm really glad you mentioned this
because $200 billion of that was Nvidia
losing $200 billion of market cap in a
day. And you're right, it's not that
significant when you think it's a $5
trillion stock that's gone up and down
$200 billion in any given day, but it
highlights the potential risk given how
much valuation, how much these stocks
have risen. If this value just gets
excised from the market like that. And
that I think is a really interesting
sort of systemic question.
>> Once you get to $5 trillion, you should
stop counting in market cap. It's like
doing down points. Like, what did they
lose percentage-wise? You know, I know
these numbers sound super flashy, but
they're $5 trillion names now. Right,
but I'm just wondering from an overall
index perspective, it shows the
disproportionate effect that they have
because that's a Disney that got erased
in one day. And then everyone's saying,
you know, "Look, who cares?" right?
Because ultimately they are the
behemoths. They are the whales in the
market. So, if something happens to
them, how much does that undermine a
broader sense of safety and growth in
the market?
>> Stocks are just massive. Nvidia right
now down by 0.6%.
Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg Brief.
Let's cross over to Ye Har for more.
Hey, Ye Har. Hi, John. Voters in
California passed Proposition 50 to
redraw the state's congressional map
before the midterms. With 71% of the
votes counted, nearly 64% of voters
approved the ballot measure that could
flip up to five Republican-held House
seats to Democrats next year.
Meanwhile, bad news for the kids this
holiday season. Toys for Netflix's mega
hit K-pop Demon Hunters will not hit
shelves in time for Christmas. Retailers
and toy makers were unprepared for the
level of success the movie saw and will
not have enough time to produce and ship
the merchandise. The products are
expected to hit shelves next year.
And Lyft and United Airlines combining
to launch a program that allows users to
earn air miles on rides. Starting today,
new Lyft users can receive 1,000 bonus
miles just for linking their United
MileagePlus account and taking two
rides. And if you're holding onto those
airline miles, you'll be able to redeem
them for Lyft rides starting in early
2026. That's your Bloomberg Brief. John.
Ye Har, thank you. [music] Thank you
very much. Up next on the program, the
latest ADP employment data is just
around the corner. Mike McKee's going to
break that down in just a moment from
New York City. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
>> [music]
[music]
>> We're seeing a much larger theme [music]
of a strong economy. I'm not suggesting
that we're not really focused on what
the next move of the Fed are. I just
don't see how
um [music] the Fed policy of this
quarter or the next two quarters is
going to have a real impact on the
[music] accentuation of the K economy.
That was Apollo President Jim Zelter
weighing in on the so-called K-shaped
economy. Right now, equity [music]
futures just a little bit softer. We're
down by a tenth of 1%. That's your price
action going into the opening bell.
Let's get some morning calls. First up,
Morgan Stanley raising its price target
on AMD to 260 citing gaming [music]
strength and data center upside. Second
up, Bernstein cutting its price target
on Carver to 80 saying the firm is not
immune to macro pressures. Third and
finally, Barclays cutting its [music]
price target on Uber to 107 saying its
autonomous transition will take time.
The stock is doing just about okay,
[music] positive by a tenth of 1%.
Moments ago,
data dropping from ADP, the employment
[music] data crossing just a second ago.
Bloomberg's Mike McKee has the latest.
Good morning, Mike.
Good morning, John. The song remains the
same. It looks like the hiring has
significantly slowed according to ADP
and pretty much all of the data that we
have watched from the alternative world.
42,000 jobs created during the month of
October according to uh the folks at
Automatic Data Processing. Uh most of
the jobs are in the service providing
area as usual, although many service
providing areas did lose employment. Uh
we see a decline of 17,000 for
information services, a decline of
15,000 for professional and business
services, and a decline of 6,000 for
leisure and hospitality. The only one
really gaining as usual is education and
health care services up 26,000.
And the uh size of businesses, uh small
businesses, the big job generators lose
10,000 jobs while medium um
establishments lose 21,000.
Large establishments with over 500
employees gained 73,000 jobs, but
we've had a lot of large establishments
announcing layoffs over the past week.
So, it is not a particularly good
number. We have only seven uh so far
forecasts for the jobs report we're not
going to get on Friday and the consensus
there was 38,000. So, uh we're all sort
of in the same range to the extent that
people are even guessing, but it is
still a very slow hiring environment.
>> Mike, I love that they're putting
together estimates for data we won't
get. Let's talk about the data we just
got. Mike, are we just seeing just
subtle signs that things have either
stabilized or they're picking up?
Because we heard from a bank executive
about 40 minutes ago who suggested
things are picking up and they're going
to reaccelerate.
It doesn't look like the labor market is
picking up yet. It's still kind of in a
uh no replacement cycle at this point.
We aren't seeing them necessarily
falling apart, although the layoff
announcements have started to come. The
question is, do they continue and uh is
there something that's going to cause
companies to hire again or are they just
still hunkered down waiting for the
effects of tariffs to work their way
through the economy? Mike McKee, thank
you, sir. Appreciate the update. ADP
report out just moments ago. It's an
upside surprise, 42K. The median
estimate of our survey was about 30K.
Equity futures off the back of that, not
much movement. We're still down by about
a tenth of 1% on the S&P 500. This
equity market really hasn't been linked
to what happens with payrolls. If it
has, it's been to whether the Federal
Reserve's going to cut interest rates or
not and that's kind of it. And I'm not
sure this plays into the next Fed
decision anyway in December. People
don't really understand the labor market
and how it coheres with an economy that
could be reaccelerating at the beginning
of this
of this next year, potentially on the
backs of AI, but potentially also from
efficiencies by companies that aren't
going to lead to more employment. It's
kind of a mystery. Do we need employment
to really reaccelerate in order to have
that strength, particularly in the
consumer sectors, in places like fast
casual restaurants, or are we looking at
something that is sustainable, that is
just the new normal, that is more
European in style than maybe the classic
United States job growth.
>> define we.
Do we? Does the market need it? I mean,
maybe not. Does the economy and do the
politicians need it? Absolutely. And
that's playing into the story the last
24 hours without a doubt. The
affordability, the cost of living and
how it's become completely unsustainable
for a whole swath of the society. And
you start thinking, if someone has
assets and they can get compound
interest in the market right now,
they're doing great. If they don't, they
cannot catch up and the cost of living
is going up really rapidly. So, how do
you solve this? Does a rate cut help
that or frankly, does that hurt it more?
A year ago, President Trump came back
into power because he ran on the fact
that groceries are too high, gasoline is
too high, and there's an inflation
crisis and affordability crisis. Now,
what you've seen from these Democrats
that have rose last night, that have
swept, and I'm talking about the margins
you need to look like. So, I'm not
really surprised at any of these people
won. I am a little bit surprised about
how big the margins were. Plus 13 points
in in Virginia. They ran on
affordability, electricity prices,
gasoline prices, rent prices, and now
this is going to be something huge the
Republicans need to deal with by the
midterm elections. They have one year to
get it down.
>> the challenge for the Democrats. Can
they park the woke stuff, leave behind
the identity politics, can the green
lobby take a backseat, and can they
focus almost exclusively on
affordability? That's going to take
massive discipline over the next few
years. It will take massive discipline,
but that is what Zohran Mamdani did in
this city. He talked about the rent
being too high. He talked about the idea
we can have free buses. He didn't really
talk about social politics. It was all
about economic politics and economic
policy. Whether he can deliver them or
not because he has really no
jurisdiction on a lot of taxes, that has
to do with the governor. The fact of the
matter is, he ran an entire campaign on
affordability, not even about how Trump
is someone that he can, you know, stand
up to. He didn't really talk about Trump
until last night. Let's get to the state
of the economy. Bloomberg's Anda Karan
joins us now from Washington, D.C. Anda,
welcome. Piece it together. ADP, ISM
manufacturing. For the data we have got,
what kind of picture do you have?
Well, look, there's a real tension in
the economy right now, John. You're
either in the camp that the jobs market
is weakening uh
rapidly and the economy needs lower
borrowing costs or interest rates, or
you're in the camp that story is being
exaggerated. We need to be more
concerned about inflation and especially
inflation that remains, you know, around
that 3% area above the Fed's uh target.
And that's really where the debate is at
right now, John, on the economy. And
we're in this data vacuum where it's
very difficult to make that call. Uh
plenty of economists will say to you in
truth they're not sure. I mean, you
listen to the speech by Fed Governor
Cook this week. She made the point on
the labor market that some of it could
be down to the immigration crackdown
story, not necessarily a weakening jobs
market. I think that's where this my
point about both the tension and the
confusion right now is, what are we
facing here? Is it a slowing economy
with a weakening jobs market or is that
being exaggerated and should the focus
be on inflation? And there's no clear
answer on it right now. Anda, is there a
historical corollary to this moment
where we've seen an economy really
expand dramatically at the same time the
labor market just doesn't add that many
jobs?
Well, we the problem with the labor
market is there are so many different
factors at play, we're not sure what is
going on there. And the immigration
crackdown part of it is is is one of the
main confusion confusing points. How has
the supply side impacted the the the
monthly number? That's number one,
immigration. And of course, number two,
as I just mentioned them earlier, we're
not getting the numbers on the jobs
market at the moment. So, it's very hard
to get a picture of what is going on
there in the first instance. So, it is a
confusing picture. It is unprecedented
in in in ways. And as Fed Chair Jerome
Powell has made clear, by the way, it's
uh not a good space for any central bank
to be in when you have this story of
persistent inflation, not runaway, but
persistent, happening at the same time.
There's clearly been softening in the
jobs market, but no one's quite sure how
weak it is. Is it a stabilization or is
it something worse? And I I think that
part of it is quite unprecedented. How
much do these ADP numbers really uh
shine a spotlight on ISM services that
come out at 10:00 a.m. Eastern? The idea
that we didn't see the employment
component of ISM manufacture
manufacturing uh really uh represent any
kind of growth. Do we need to see ISM
services show employment growth for
people to remain optimistic that this
slow turn is not unhealthy at least?
Yeah, um and you're absolutely right.
There is this argument that people will
say, "Hold on a second, we're coming
from what was a very tight hit by
historical standards labor market that
there was over-hiring for one of a
better term, that companies are now
retreating from that level. We're still
not in the the mass broad-scale layoff
picture that you that some have warned
about." So, that that argument does
exist, but I think when you when you
step back, there's no doubt when you
talk with the manufacturing ISM data
that there is clearly our pockets of
unambiguous weakness in the economy. And
manufacturing clearly has been weak for
much of this year and isn't showing much
signs of turning a corner barring the
whole AI capex side of things. And
that's despite all of this political
focus on
regenerating manufacturing, still very
much in the doldrums. So, I think when
people do look at what's happening
across the economy,
obviously pockets of clear strength, but
there's clearly uh areas of uh of
of weakness, too. Soft production, tepid
demand, seen it all year. Anda Karan,
thank you, sir. Manufacturing's been a
problem, shrinking for an eighth
consecutive month looking at the ISM.
The employment component that Lisa's
talking about, nine consecutive months
of a contracting employment component in
that particular reading. Not good. I
don't understand. This is supposed to be
the economy that's transferring back to
manufacturing to a larger degree. This
is the time we should see manufacturing
picking up and taking the mantle a
little bit from the services sector
given the re-jiggering of the US
economy. We didn't see that. Do we see
at least the services side of the
economy firing on all cylinders?
>> Well, it takes months though, even years
to bring some of these plans that some
of the auto companies are talking about
and other big manufacturing industries
are talking about back into the United
States. What struck me about ADP is the
estimate range. It feels like everyone
is flying by a negative 20K to plus 70K.
Just hearing from the president weighing
in on the recent elections. Let's take a
listen.
soon
But
but we did a great job over in China.
And we've done a great job in turning
off wars. We stopped eight wars, eight
wars.
And uh we have one to go as you probably
know and that'll get stopped also.
But we've done a great job. So it's uh
really
it's really been a an honor to do it and
I did it with many of the people in this
room.
Every one of you I know and every one of
you I like. I like our leaders. I like
everybody.
Uh but I thought we'd have a discussion
after the press leaves about uh what
last night represented
and what we should do about it and also
about the shutdown and how that relates
to last night. I think uh
if you were read the pollsters, uh the
shutdown was a big factor, negative for
the Republicans.
And that was a big factor and uh they
say that I wasn't on the ballot was the
the biggest factor.
But I don't know about that but I was
honored that they said that.
And uh I just want to thank everybody
for being here. A very special thanks to
Vice President J.D. Vance who's doing a
terrific job. Thank you.
>> [applause]
>> As well as the Senate leadership team
that has been working very hard, working
really I I will tell you nobody's
working any harder representing the
American people including Senator John
Thune. John, thank you. Thank you.
>> [applause]
>> Senator John Barrasso. John, thank you
very much.
>> [applause]
>> Senator John Cornyn or wherever you may
be, Tom. Thank you.
Thank you, Tom. Thank you.
Uh
Senator Shelley Moore Capito who's been
very good. [applause] Thank you,
Shelley.
Senator James Lankford from one of my
favorite states. 70 70 70 70
I [applause] want to say
77 out of 77. Reagan was 56. 56, that
was the record. We got seven We had
every one of them. Thank you, James.
And a fantastic friend of mine and an
incredible advocate during the election
a year ago, Tim Scott. Thank you, Tim.
>> [applause]
>> So as you know, we are in the midst of a
disastrous Democrat-created government
shutdown and it is Democrat-created but
I don't think they're getting really the
blame that they should.
It's now officially the longest shutdown
in American history.
The Democrat radicals in the Senate have
shown zero interest in reopening the
government and I don't think they'll act
so soon. A lot of people disagree. I've
been saying for the last 30 days we've
had four or five different points. Yes,
sir, they're going to get it right now.
We should have it done in a day. I've
heard that about four times. I heard it
after Kings, you know, they said I was a
king.
And I heard it after Kings. I heard it
after a couple of other moments in time.
And I said, "No, I don't believe so."
And now I heard it's after the election.
I don't believe so. I think they will I
think they're kamikaze pilots. I just
got back from Japan. I talked about the
kamikaze pilots. I think these guys are
kamikaze. They'll take down the country
if they have to. So I don't think so.
Millions of Americans are going to
be without SNAP benefits and I will say
about SNAP benefits. So when I was
president, we had $7 billion worth and
now they have many times that because
these benefits were given to anybody
that asked.
And they're up to I hear
just many times 47 billion.
Uh
so it wasn't the purpose of SNAP. It was
that was for people that really had
problems, down and out, people that
really had problems.
But during Biden, they gave it to
anybody that wanted it. I think it's
something you have to talk about because
the numbers are incredible.
But countless public servants are now
not being paid and the air traffic
control system is under increasing
strain.
We must get the government back open
soon and really immediately. We have to
get it up. We have the hottest economy
we've ever had
and it's affecting the stock market now
a little bit. But the stock market as of
Friday
has hit many record highs during the
last 9 months, many.
And uh it will again. This is just the
beginning because when these plants that
are being built right now start opening
up, we've never had anything like this.
It's a boom. There's a construction boom
right now but that's going to be bigger
than that. That's going to be an
economic boom as as soon as they open
up.
And it's going to be something special.
We have car companies coming in. Uh when
I was in Japan, Toyota Mr. Toyota, I
said, "What's your name?" Toyota.
I said, "Oh, you're rich."
>> [laughter]
>> I said, "How much of the company do you
own?" 92.1%.
I said, "I'm glad you said the one." He
wants to be rich.
>> [laughter]
>> I said, "You're a rich guy." And he said
uh "I'm investing $10 billion in the
US."
And uh you know what I'm talking about,
right? You introduced me, Mr. Senator.
Uh
you introduced me originally when you
were the ambassador to Japan. He's He's
still the The President of the United
States hosting a breakfast at the White
House this morning alongside Republican
senators to reflect on the events of the
last night and of course to discuss the
record-long government shutdown. I want
to check in on the bond market. Bond
market looks like this this morning
across twos, 10s, and 30s as we get some
headlines on Treasury refunding. Bond
yields so far higher just a little bit,
3.58% on twos, on 10s 4.09%
with the latest. Let's cross back over
to Bloomberg's Mike McKee for more. Good
morning, Mike. Good morning, John. We're
out with the Treasury quarterly
refunding numbers. Treasury's going to
auction a total
of 125 billion. That is in line with
estimates and the breakdown is as
follows. 25 billion in 30s, 42 billion
in 10-year notes, and 58 billion in
3-year notes. Those auctions go off next
week and we shall see
whether they have to
increase bill sizes over the course of
the quarter because the question is will
they be borrowing enough given the
fiscal trajectory of the United States?
We did see on Monday's borrowing needs
announcement that they lowered the
amount they thought they would have to
borrow this quarter and in the first
quarter of next year. But 125 billion is
the total and that is pretty much as
expected. Mike McKee with the latest.
Michael, thank you. As expected.
Breanne, I'll get your take on this one.
Honestly, I think this is going to be
interesting. When do they actually start
to make the transition that everybody is
expecting which is more heavy issuance
on the front end of the yield curve.
We're not seeing it yet. People keep
saying we're going to see it. We're
going to see it. Right now, it's pretty
much in line and you are not seeing that
doubling down in the maturity profile of
the United States debt just yet. At what
point do they have to though? I think
that is what a lot of people are
wondering.
>> We get some bill bank next year from the
Federal Reserve, right? In the next few
months.
>> Don't call it quantitative easing. It's
not QE.
>> It's not QE. It just looks kind of like
QE. It just is not QE. not QE. Well,
it's the the idea, if you haven't caught
up, it's the mortgage the
mortgage-related debt, the issue the
issuance that the Treasury that the
Federal Reserve is holding, they're
going to let that roll off and then
they're going to buy T-bills instead. So
it's a supportive aspect for the T-bill
market and maybe not so much for
>> in the composition of the balance sheet.
Exactly.
>> And we're calling it that. Okay. It's
Matt Hornbach and Mike Gaipen are going
to break this down for us in just a
moment. As we stick with the data as
traders look for clarity on the path
ahead for rate cuts. The team at Morgan
Stanley writes the following. We
maintain our call for an additional 25
basis point cut in December. But the key
question is what the data the Fed will
actually have before December. A
prolonged shutdown is a risk to our view
of more consecutive cuts. Mike Gaipen
and Matt Hornbach of Morgan Stanley join
us now for more. Gents, good to see you
both. Good morning. Good morning. Mike,
I'm going to come to you first. The
data, we don't have much right now. This
government shutdown, it makes it less
likely we get rate cuts in December. Is
that right? Well, I think we're just
reflecting what what Powell said that if
you're driving a car in the fog, you
should you should slow down. So he was
saying there is a case to be made where
if you don't have the data, maybe you
can't act.
My view would be that if if we're still
in December and the shutdown's in play
and we don't have the data, I I'd be
really surprised if the Fed doesn't cut.
I think the drag from a government
shutdown at that point could could mean
growth is essentially zero in the
quarter.
Uh and I would be surprised if there
weren't some spillovers in in the
limited data that we see. So I think if
if
we don't have data, it's because the
government shutdown and I think that
probably still justifies a cut. We'll
get to Matt in just 1 second. But Mike
Michael, from the economic perspective,
do you get the sense that this is an
economy that needs rate cuts especially
given the fact that the slow growth,
slow hire, low fire kind of turn has
been going on for quite a while and may
have a lot to do with other factors
outside of just the trajectory of the US
economy. Well, so we we came into the
year thinking no, you probably don't
need to cut rates this year that you
would want to ensure that any inflation
rise from tariffs is transitory and then
we thought the rate cuts would come in
2026. So you know, my view is maybe we
don't need it. There's certainly
discrepancy between the data and
attention between the activity and the
labor market data
but I'm not on the committee. I don't
get to make the choice. The the view is
the balance of risk shifted and policy
needs to be recalibrated. Uh so they've
made that decision. They want to move
closer to neutral and I'm just thinking
the the data will justify another step
in that direction in in December. Matt,
are you already seeing that as with
respect to how the bond market is
responding to recent weakness and this
idea that it seems as though everyone's
buying the transitory story again.
They're just not saying the T-word.
Well, it feels to me as if the market
had to adjust its pricing for the
December meeting based on what we got
out of the meeting last week, but the
market is also at the same time hesitant
of completely taking the December
meeting off of the table because I think
investors are starting to look at the
bigger picture. They're saying, "Hey,
2026 might be a better year, but we have
to get through the end of 2025 first."
And the government shutdown is starting
to slowly creep into the mindset of
investors, and they're thinking, "Gosh,
if the data do come in on the on the
weaker side going into the December
meeting, then the Fed should very well
continue its gradual move back to a
neutral stance.
>> Day 36, longest in history. The
president is now talking to Senate
Republicans saying they should just blow
up the filibuster in order to do this.
Is there a line in the sand where the
government shutdown would need to end
for you to really think that December's
back on the table cuz all that data will
start flowing through again? Well, I
think to the point that Mike made, it's
it they're going to get some data. Even
if the government does stay shut down
for the next couple of weeks, we might
not get as much official government data
as we would like to get, but we will
still get a set of economic data like
the data that we got this morning. We'll
get another round there, and we're going
to get of course the state unemployment
claims data as well. So, they're going
to have something to work with. And so,
it you know, to us it's ultimately it's
the going to be the totality of whatever
they have in hand that will lead them to
decide what to do in December.
>> Mike Apen, we've got the earnings.
That's what we can go on, and we can
talk to corporate executives, and we've
spoken to a few already this morning.
One bank executive came on the program
and said things are okay, better than
okay. There's no real damage in our loan
book, and we expect re-acceleration into
the new year. This runs counter to the
view that you have on the labor market.
Can you just flesh out what you do
expect to see in the labor market in the
months to come? Yeah, so there's
certainly a tension in the data. The
activity data solid, AI-related
spending, you know, off the charts.
Upper-income households doing doing
well. You were emphasizing that in the
previous segment. But the labor market
data looks different. So, our our view
is we're maybe a third of the way
through the process of firms passing
tariffs onto the consumer. So, that's
going to extend at least into the first
quarter of next year. While that's
happening, I think they'll be great
reluctance to hire. We've seen that. The
low hire, low fire labor market, the ADP
report is very consistent with that. So,
while that's going on, we think the
unemployment rate creeps higher. And we
have the
the the federal workers who took the
early retirement package will be rolling
off payrolls in in October to the tune
of about 150,000. So, we think the
unemployment rate could finish this
year, you know, around 4.5, 4.6. And if
that's, you know, it's not a
meaningfully higher move, that's still a
very low unemployment rate, but the
direction of that move, I think is is
enough for a
Fed chair who says he's now a little
more data dependent to say, "Let's take
another step." So, I modest
deterioration, modest continued cooling
is what we think that message will be
out of the labor market.
>> Forgive me for referencing your old
colleagues. I want to talk about Bank of
America just a little bit.
[clears throat] I want to talk about
what Brian Moynihan's going to be
discussing later on this morning. He's
talking about less labor-intensive
revenue growth. And I wonder if we need
to focus on less labor-intensive GDP
growth.
And I just wonder what that means for
the Federal Reserve. And I'm going to
get to what it means for the bond
market, too, because I don't know if
fixed income should trade on the jobs
numbers or GDP.
What's it going to mean for the Federal
Reserve in the quarters to come? Well,
so it's
this is also part of the fog story. This
this rolling in is a difficult thing to
understand and manage in in real time.
I'm not sure in the short run it changes
their thinking all that much. It'll have
an implication on the labor market. If
it's a supply-side productivity-driven
story, it'll also be something that
brings inflation down.
Right? So, that it would reinforce the
I'll use the T-word, the transitory
inflation story. Um it would reinforce
that. I think it would give you more
confidence that inflation should be
coming back down. And if anything, it it
would leave this kind of low dynamic
labor market in place. I think both of
those would say the Fed will have a
gradual easing bias.
>> This has market consequences, of course.
Yes.
>> If you look at payrolls, there should be
some kind of loose relationship between
what happens with jobs and what happens
with earnings. But this year at least,
we've managed to have a massive step
down in jobs growth, and earnings growth
has been absolutely fantastic. So,
equity land can ignore what happens with
jobs. Can the bond market? What should
the bond market trade on? Jobs or GDP?
Well, the bond market typically trades
on the Fed. So, if the Fed is going to
continue to lower its policy rate, then
you would expect the bond market to
trade in kind. Now, we all know that the
bond market is priced for a very gradual
easing of policy. The issue though is if
the Fed delivers on what the market
forwards are telling you today about the
path of Fed policy, it's not as if the
market forwards are just going to sit
there and shrug their shoulders. They're
going to they're going to move. And
that's the typical behavior in the bond
market. When the Fed follows the
forwards, the forwards don't just sit
there. They keep moving in that same
direction. So, from our vantage point,
if the Fed delivers an easing cycle in
line with what Mike believes and in line
with close to what the market forwards
are pricing, the forwards are going to
keep moving. And that's going to
continue to weigh on bond yields.
Already, we have a 10-year yield right
around 4%. We're the only house on the
street that thought that would happen
this year. So, as the Fed continues to
deliver, we do think that bond yields
will continue to fall. At what point are
you starting to get more concerned about
longer-term inflation and a longer-term
pushback in US Treasuries? I'm looking
right now, Mike pointed out Michael
McKee parsing through the auction
refunding announcement pointing out that
they do plan to increase their T-bills
and their their low duration
instruments, and there's this feeling
that the Fed's going to monetize that.
The Fed's going to increasingly buy that
debt, call it whatever you will, in
order to keep rates low while also
pegging rates to a fairly low level. At
what point does that pose a risk to
longer-term Treasuries and the potential
for this to backfire in terms of some
investor appetite?
>> Yeah, I think I think you're talking
about the bond vigilantes that show up
every now and again and and typically
lose money at the end of the day. You
know, for from my vantage point, you
know, you're going to have to see it in
the data. Okay? If the Fed is lowering
interest rates and inflation is moving
higher, that would be the type of
environment that I think would get bond
investors very, very nervous. We're not
really seeing that, right? We're seeing
a committee that is divided on what to
do in this inflationary environment, but
if the inflationary environment turns
out as we're forecasting,
people should be very relaxed about
owning high-quality duration in the bond
market. And by the way, just on the
Treasury refunding that that happened
this morning, that's very much in line
with our projections not just for this
refunding, but for the next several
refundings. We we don't believe that the
US Treasury is going to increase their
coupon issuance until February of 2027.
I mean, for all intents and purposes,
that's a lifetime away, and a lot of
things will happen between now and then.
So, we don't really see an issuance
problem for the investor base and and
for the bond market. Mike, I'm just
wondering, what's the Fed's mandate
right now? Because if the mandate is low
unemployment, then right now you could
make an argument that maybe it is a
positive thing for them to ease. But if
it's for financial stability and the
idea of inflation, asset price inflation
will at some point trickle into the real
economy, especially in AI and energy
[clears throat] costs and some of these
other kinds of issues.
How do you square whether they're
potentially adding fuel to the fire?
Well, I
they're risking that, right? It they are
taking out insurance right now against
what they see as downside risk to
employment. And insurance comes at a
cost.
And that cost is what you just
mentioned, the risk of higher inflation
over time that you're a more
inflation-tolerant Fed.
Or you fuel animal spirits in in asset
markets. But Powell has said many times,
"We do not have good choices right now."
Right? So, they think risks are higher
to the unemployment rate, to the upside
in inflation, and there are concerns
about animal spirits in financial
markets. So, they're taking out
insurance against the labor market.
They're betting that the cost of that
won't materialize, but that's what
markets and investors are concerned
about.
>> Matt, can we finish on the FX market? A
bit of dollar strength has come back in
the last 5 days. How does your
medium-term view stack up with your
short-term view on the US dollar?
Indeed, yeah. So, we we came into this
year very bearish on the dollar. We held
that view until last week. So, given
what we're seeing from the committee at
this moment in time, in the absence of a
full set of economic data, we decided to
peel back on that view temporarily. It's
a tactical adjustment in what we think
will be a trend that extends into 2026.
It doesn't have to play out that way.
One of the things that we're debating as
a house today alongside my colleagues in
economics is what does 2026 and 2027
look like? That can be a game-changer
for the US dollar. We're still debating
that, but in the meantime, if the Fed
continues to cut rates, the dollar
should have a little bit more room to
move lower before possibly swinging
higher in the second half of next year.
Good timing to back out. I'm giving you
a victory lap. It's good to see you.
Thanks for dropping by. Thank you, sir.
Matt Holm back there alongside Michael
Gapen. Just getting two headlines from
McDonald's that I want to bring to you,
and it's slightly disturbing about the
condition of the economy right now.
McDonald's saying lower-income traffic
fell nearly double digits. I'll read
that again. Lower-income traffic fell
nearly double digits, and they see the
consumer pressure continuing into 2026.
>> This is what we continue to see from a
lot of these fast-casual restaurants. We
saw a similar dynamic, although less
severe possibly at Cava, Chipotle. The
fact that McDonald's is seeing such a
bifurcation with lower income consumers
speaks to this K-shaped economy that
everyone keeps talking about. How do you
address that? We keep going back to
that. Will a Fed rate cut really help
that or will it eventually just make it
that much bigger?
>> The economic statement is going to put
additional focus on this story. We've
moved on from Big Tech. We've moved on
from Big Finance. The focus now is on
this story. In 2 weeks time, Target
reports. 2 weeks tomorrow, Walmart. And
that's where another spotlight's going
to drop on the condition of the US
consumer. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning for your
Bloomberg Brief and your news worldwide.
Here's Yahaira. Hey Yahaira.
>> Hi John. ADP's monthly employment data
shows US companies added 42,000 [music]
jobs in October, coming in above the
median estimate of 30,000. Of those,
33,000 were in the services [music]
sector and the remaining 9,000 were
goods-producing jobs. While the figures
are tempering some concerns [music] of a
deterioration in the labor market, the
modest increase still points to a
general softening.
Meanwhile, shares of AMD are falling
nearly 2% in the premarket. The main
competitor to Nvidia in the AI chip
market failed to impress investors with
its revenue forecast. [music]
The bar was high after AMD's shares had
more than doubled this year heading into
the report.
And Amazon has sent a cease and desist
letter to Perplexity demanding that the
search startup stop allowing its AI
browser agents comment to make purchases
online for users. Amazon accuses
Perplexity of committing computer fraud
by failing to disclose when its AI
agents is shopping on a user's behalf.
Perplexity says Amazon is bullying a
smaller competitor. That's your
Bloomberg [music] Brief, John.
>> Yahaira, thank you. We'll see you in
just a moment. Up next on the program,
we'll set you up for the day ahead.
Plus, we'll get you some morning movers.
Humana down as the company keeps its
full year guidance unchanged. That stock
is down by [music] 4%.
>> [music]
[music]
>> This was a a big turnout [music] and I
think it reflects the frustration of the
New York City voters, which uh Zohran
Mamdani spoke very effectively to. He
has said, "I have my goals. I want to
achieve them, but I'm wide open on how
to do that." And that's an opening, I
think, for business expertise to help
him figure this out. That was Kathryn
Wylde of the Partnership for New York
City following Zohran Mamdani's
>> [music]
>> tremendous victory in the last 24 hours
becoming the mayor of New York,
mayor-elect, I should say. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 look like this
this morning. Equity futures positive by
1/10 of 1%. Likewise on the Nasdaq. The
opening bell about 40 minutes away. So,
let's get you some morning movers. Let's
cross back over to Yahaira for more. Hey
Yahaira. Hi John. Humana earnings just
out and shares are falling more than 4%
now in the premarket after it issued a
disappointing earnings outlook. Uh after
the insurer beat profit estimates,
[music] I'm sorry, but did not boost its
guidance, a move Bloomberg Intelligence
called perplexing. It is also warning
about rising medical costs, rising more
than analysts had anticipating. So, that
[music] is also hitting shares this
morning. Meanwhile, we move on to the AI
server maker Super Micro Computers now
down more than 7% after issuing a
disappointing earnings forecast. The CEO
saying that competition remains intense.
So, they are cutting prices and
investing more in order to win more
[music] new business, but that is
hitting margins and hitting the stock
this morning. And we end on Pinterest.
Those shares are plunging more than 18%
now in the premarket after offering
[music]
a disappointing holiday outlook. The
company, which makes most of its money
from ads and is leaning heavily into
into AI just isn't seeing the ad dollars
coming in as quickly as investors had
hoped. John. Yahaira, thank you. Thanks
for this morning. As we count it down to
the opening bell, here's the week ahead
and the day ahead. At 10:00 a.m. Eastern
time, more data, ISM services. And the
big event, a Supreme Court hearing on
President Trump's tariff agenda. 1:00
p.m. later on this afternoon, the
president delivering remarks in Miami.
After the closing bell, earnings from
Qualcomm. [music] Thursday, a Bank of
England rate decision and a slew of Fed
speak on Friday heading into the week,
consumer
>> [music]
>> consumer sentiment. This morning, as I
say, the main event, the Supreme Court
hearing arguments over President Donald
Trump's tariff agenda. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendell is standing by with more. Tyler,
just hearing that Ambassador Grier will
be there.
Right, exactly, John. We're also
expecting the US Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessent because this is, of
course, a huge centerpiece of this
administration's economic agenda. The
court today is hearing arguments aimed
at answering two questions. One, does
President Trump have the legal authority
to impose tariffs through IEEPA, the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act? And two, if he does, can he do so
without congressional approval? Because
as the emergency powers stand, the
president can take action against
foreign nations in times of national
emergencies, but the administration uh
has never used tariffs in this way
before. But this administration has, in
fact, 60% of the tariffs imposed so far
this term are done so through IEEPA. And
our analysts at Bloomberg Economics say
there are going to be big economic
impacts either way. If there is a
sweeping judgment against the
administration, the average US effective
tariff rate could fall from 14 and 1/2
to 6 and 1/2% and the White House could
be on the hook for more than 140 billion
dollars in tariff refunds. Now, John, it
is very clear that both sides are
gearing up just in case this plays out
against the administration. Take, for
example, how we're seeing uh the White
House impose other tariff authorities
such as Section 232 for those more
broad-sweeping sector-specific tariffs
on the basis of national security
concerns.
>> Tyler, as the administration prepares
potentially to have to go other avenues
to enact their tariff policy, what do we
expect them to do in the meantime? What
When will we get this final judgment?
Can they enact those tariff policies
before the Supreme Court rules?
Well, Anne Marie, the fact that the that
the Supreme Court is hearing this on an
unusually aggressive schedule does
signal to us that we are likely to see
this issue resolved quickly, perhaps by
the end of the year. Though we should
note at this point, the Supreme Court
has weighed in before on issues when
it's an emergency basis related to the
administration, but this is the first
time that they're actually weighing in
on the legality of one of President
Trump's policies. While we wait for this
to play out, we know that the
administration has already pursued other
tariff actions. Section 232 still
waiting for some of those
sector-specific tariffs to be enacted
such as those against the chip industry.
But then other uh
investigations that have been launched
including Section 301 that looks into
unfair trade practices. We saw this
under the first Trump administration
against China around allegations of
violating IP protections, for example.
And the administration just launched an
investigation over China's failed
purchases of US agricultural products
under the Phase One trade agreement.
Now, President Trump says that
investigation is off, but that doesn't
mean the administration isn't going to
start to put forward other
investigations to bolster their tariff
position. Tyler Kendell with the latest.
Tyler, thank you. Tyler, we're tracking
that story down in Washington, D.C.
throughout this morning. In the banking
world, we talk about too big to fail. In
the policy world, is this too big to
strike down? Well, that's going to be a
question for the Supreme Court. Are they
going to be able to take that into
consideration? Because ultimately,
they're going to be testing the
presidential authority and autonomy over
the tariff structure and national
security of the United States. It's a
pretty big issue and sets a pretty big
precedent.
>> This is the argument the Treasury
Secretary and others have made. We're in
the middle of these negotiations. We've
already brought in money. You cannot
strike this down. Supreme Court may then
just take more of a nuanced approach.
Some can stay. Some have to go. We're
tracking that story later on today, of
course. Coming up tomorrow, Seema Shah
of Principal [music] Asset Management,
Bob Doll of Crossmark Global Investments
will speak to the former Kansas City Fed
President Esther George and Brad Rogoff
of Barclays. From New York City this
morning, good morning to you all. Thank
you for choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.
Day four at the WTA Finals in Riyadh,
Aryna Sabalenka had to dig deep to get
past Jessica Pegula in three sets. The
US Open champ fought back from a break
down before closing it out 6-3 in the
decider. Earlier, Coco Gauff kept her
hopes of making the final four alive as
she took out Jasmine Paolini. The
American will have to beat Aryna
Sabalenka on Thursday to reach the final
four.